# From the Underdark to the Upperdark

**18 Uktar - Blingdenstone**

Tomorrow we will set out toward the surface. I'm leading an expedition of about 80 of my kin to escape the impending assault on [[Blingdenstone]]. There's no clue why the duergar would suddenly want to attack our home, it came out of nowhere. I'll try to get some rest before we head out.

[... blood smears ...]

...out of nowhere! The assault came sooner than expected, had to leave early. Didn't manage to find everybody from the expedition I'm leading. Found only 35 people or so. Had to battle some duergar on the way out of the city, we managed to hold them off and protect most of the group, we lost 3 people in the battle. Think we managed to get away without a trace, didn't spot any duergar on our trail. Let's get some rest befo...

[... page torn ...]

...an ambush! I was wrong, they were on right on our trail. Soon after we made camp to get some rest, about 10 to 15 duergar came out of nowhere. We did outnumber them, but we were not equipped for battle. Only a handful of us were skilled fighters, the rest are simple miners. We fought the duergar as bravely as we could. We managed to fend them off, but we lost many people in the battle. Only 14 of us remain now... Two duergar escaped, probably ran back for reinforcements. They could return soon, we must move quickly.

**19 Uktar - The way up**

We managed to get some distance between us and the dwarves. We tried to make hide the trail behind us and create a fake trail in another direction. Hopefully that will give us some time, as time is not on our side. A lot of us are wounded and we're not moving as fast as we could have.

We passed a waterfall along the way, coming from a large black hole in the cavern ceiling. It must be coming from a long way up as I couldn't see the source of the waterfall. We stopped there shortly to catch our breath and drink some water. Saw some skeletons and broken mining equipment. I haven't heard from any mining activity in this part, so where did they come from? Did they fall down the waterfall?

A little girl, [[Kesni]], is walking with me as I lead the group. She's asking me questions all the time, where did I learn how to fight, where I trained, how I knew where to go, how much longer before we get to the surface. Her parents kept calling her back, but not much later, she was right by my side again. Asking questions. Annoying bugger.

[... more blood smears ...]

...going to make it. Another ambush. They came from all directions, how did they find us? It makes no sense! They were in fewer numbers now, but so were we. We fought like hell, and although we managed to drive them off again, a lot of us were killed. The group is down to 6 now. Kesni, her parents, two other miners, and me. I'm the only one who seems to know what end of a sword goes where. I don't know if we can survive another ambush. Or worse.

[... burnt paper ...]

...was too late. The darkmantles dropped from the ceiling when one of the miners slipped and yelled out in pain. Came down right on top of us. It went dark. Black even. We couldn't see anything. All I heard was screaming, until it stopped. Kesni was right beside me when it happened. She clung on to me as soon as the darkness hit us. I could feel she covered her own mouth, to not make a sound. As quietly as I could, I picked her up and tried to go the other way from the screams. Suddenly we could see again, we were outside the darkness. Quickly I checked on Kesni to see if she was okay. She was alright, just a few scratches. Shortly after, the darkness faded. Tried if I could see the others, but I could only see the darkmantles. Feeding. Kesni ran toward them, but I had to hold her back, my hand covering her mouth as she wanted to scream. I have failed them. All of them. It was my job to keep them safe and I couldn't.

It's only the little girl and me now...

[... torn pages ...]

**29 Uktar - The surface**

It's growing colder and colder the further we go. I have no idea where we are headed, I lost track of our position since the darkmantle attack. But we must be headed the right way, as I can feel the change in climate. Kesni's cold, thirsty and hungry. I am too. Hopefully we'll reach the surface soon and get some help.

Kesni collapsed on the cavern floor, said she couldn't walk anymore. I'm picking her up so she can ride on my back for the rest of the way. Not sure how long she can go on. She stopped talking too, the constant barrage of questions stopped. There's the occasional sob behind me as I'm carrying her. She's shivering. Poor girl.

...feeling a little bit better now, as she started talking again. Thanked me for saving her. Asked if I'm taking her somewhere safe. Promised to keep her safe, no matter what. Never been to the surface, but it can't be worse than down here. Must be better there. It has to be.

I got my bearing again, found the path leading to the surface. We followed the path as quickly as we could. Then I spotted the exit. It was a small hole in the cavern wall, above some broken rocks. Almost missed it as there was hardly any light coming through. Kesni couldn't climb the rocks by herself, so I put her on my back and told her to hold on tight as I climbed up. And she did. My shoulders and neck still hurt. When we got outside, it was pitch black. Must be night time? We spotted some light in the distance, so I suppose we'll go there.

A patrol found us and took us to their town. It's called [[Termalaine]]. They brought us to their leader, a half-orc called [[Speaker Oarus|Oarus]]. Said he's one of the town Speakers in [[Ten Towns]], representing Termalaine. We told them what happened back home, the assault on Blingdenstone, the ambushes, the darkmantle attacks, how Kesni and me are the only two that remained. Oarus listened to us and understood how dire our situation was. He immediately took care of us, gave us food, drinks and warm clothing. Kesni and I are exhausted, he offered us some beds in his home. I'm so thankful for his kindness. Better get some rest now, we have much to talk about in the coming days.

It was still dark when we woke up. I thought it was supposed to get light during the day here on the surface. After talking to Oarus and the locals about this, it seemed this happened a couple of years ago. Things went dark and it never turned light again. Folk around here believe it's because of some evil deity, Auril, the Goddess of Winter. Sounds like that is right up my alley, I definitely need to investigate this at some point.