# 1. Barrels, bulls, beers and boars

**14 Nightal - Bryn Shander**

[[#Santiago Cruz de los Santos]] and I were in Bryn Shander at the Festival of the Barreled Bull. Santiago would of course sign up for the drinking competition. While he was in the line to sign up, we met a couple of other locals that would also partake in the competition.

Santiago, two dwarves and an elf were getting themselves absolute pissed with one of the two dwarves winning. It got close between the elf, a local hero named [[#Aust Rime]], and a dwarf, [[#Zog Trollbane]]. Zog won. Of course it was the dwarf to win a drinking competition...

Afterwards all of us joined together and went outside again. A kobold lady named [[#Rotom Moonbane]] seemed to have made a wager with Zog. He seemed willing to wager all of his winnings to see if he could stay on a huge boar. While being absolutely pissed from the competition. Didn't end well for the dwarf. Heh.

I saw a shady figure move through the crowd and while I didn't see it happen immediately, I saw another dwarf drop to his knees, clutching his belly. He seemed to have been stabbed by someone. The same shady figure held a glowing hot knife to the bull's ass, which sent it into a rampage.

Ran up to the unfortunate bugger and shouted for the guards. Saw the shady figure very eager to get away from the situation, so I tried to stop him. Tried one of my blood curses, but failed. Really need to get some more practice with this, need to remember my training... There was a bit of a skirmish, but the guards managed to overpower the shady figure and take him in for questioning at the stockade, run by [[#Sheriff Markham Southwell]].

The bull broke free from the pen and rushed into a tent, where a fortune teller lady was inside. Santiago and I managed to calm the boar down and bring him back to his owner, [[#Hiln Trollbane]]. Hiln asked us to meet up at the North Look Inn to talk about the situation, as he seemed to have more information.

Meanwhile, the guards learned that the figure was called [[#Ernest]] and he was part of a cult called The Creed of Auril. The poor bugger seemed to be very afraid of something, or someone. He used a ring that made an icicle pierce his chest, killing himself instantly. The guard that did the interrogation, [[#Marlon Tayte]], joined up with us as we were on our way towards the tavern to talk to Hiln Trollbane.

We got to the inn fairly quickly and saw Hiln at a table enjoying an ale, recovering from his wounds. Rime took a table by himself and started boasting about his recent adventures. The locals seem to love his stories. Rotom seemed to be more interested in the crowd. 

Hiln told us he met a figure called Henrack from a merchant caravan that have been visiting the other towns. Human, slick black hair and a cold stare. Henrack seemed a pretty suspicious figure and the fact that the caravan had gone through towns where some murders happened recently made it even more suspicious. Hiln talked about Henrack will Ernest, which seemed to have triggered the incident at the boar riding competition. Hiln told us that the caravan went to Targos next and that it would be best for us to start our investigation there. There's a bounty for 300 gold to capture the killer. Good money. Could use that.

We got some supplies, rented a couple rooms and after a good night's rest, we're going to set out for Targos. Hope the weather calms down a bit or we'll have to deal with a blizzard...

## Notable characters

### Santiago Cruz de los Santos

Half-orc pirate that wanted me to tag along for his quest to find his missing ship. Doesn't shy away from getting into trouble.

### Rotom Moonbane

Kobold lady, kind of quirky and in your face. Seems to be quickly distracted when something shiny is near.

### Aust Rime

High elf paladin. Local hero. Got this sabretooth skull on his shoulder that talks to. Likes to boast about his adventures and accomplishments. Calls everyone "squirrel".

### Marlon Tayte

Dwarven guard in Bryn Shander. Tough looking fellow, you don't want him on your bad side. Interrogated [[#Ernest]] as well.

### Zog Trollbane

Dwarven fellow that won the drinking competition. Go figure... Likes to boast, can't resist a good wager. Brother of [[#Hiln Trollbane]].

### Hiln Trollbane

The dwarf that got wounded at the festival. Ran the boar rodeo at the festival. Met with him in the tavern where he told us about Henrack, the caravan and the bounty on the killer. Brother of [[#Zog Trollbane]].

### Ernest

The shady figure that stabbed [[#Hiln Trollbane]], held the glowing knife against the boar and fought with us. Killed himself with something magic that caused an icicle to burst from his heart.

### Sheriff Markham Southwell

The sheriff of Bryn Shander. Upstanding fellow. Haven't met him personally yet. Boss of [[#Marlon Tayte]].