# Dwarves Divided

**20 Nightal - Termalaine**

Before we set out for the Dwarven Valley, we stayed for a couple of days in [[Termalaine]] to rest and prepare for our journey eastwards. As we head a couple of days, I figured that I would attempt at making some oil of etherealness out of the vial of ectoplasm I managed to harvest from the ghost in the mine. It took me the better part of a day, but I managed to make the potion. It should come in handy when one of us wants or needs to traverse the Ethereal plane.

Figured the owlbear feathers would make a nice pillow for [[Kesni]], so I set out to find someone in town who could make a pillow from them. I gave the pillow to Kesni as a present when I told her I would be leaving again for a while in a couple of days. She was sad that I was leaving again, but was very happy to have gotten the very comfortable pillow. As much as I want to be around more often for her, I just can't. It's not safe enough here yet and I feel we've barely uncovered what's going on around this place. There's people looking for us, can't have them barging in on Kesni, or even [[Speaker Oarus|Oarus]] for that matter.

**21 Nightal - Termalaine**

We talked to Oarus to prepare for our negotiations with the dwarves. Oarus gave us a bag of gems that we could show the dwarves as a sign of goodwill. Also, [[Amala Bhilar|Amala]] would come along as a liaison of Termalaine who could work out the negotiations with the dwarves. 

**22 Nightal - Termalaine**

We started prepping for our journey. Oarus had a sled available that we could use as a transport. We set out for the Dwarven Valley under a dark, colourless sky. There was a bit of snowfall when we left, but that would pick up to heavier snow as we went eastwards. We decided to take the shorter route through the hills instead instead of taking the roads south, east and then north again. The terrain was a bit tougher to handle, but we managed quite fine. Until [[Aedan]] seemed to notice something. 

Aedan got down on one knee to feel the ground and listen. As soon as I wanted to ask what he noticed, we all heard something too. A deep rumble, that kept getting louder and louder. As soon as we knew what it would be, we were too late. [[Aust Rime|Aust]] shouted "Avalanche!" and started running for a hillock that looked like it would be able to give us some shelter from the wall of snow that was about to bury us all. Santiago, Rotom and I made it to the hillock and brace ourselves for what was coming. Amala tripped while running over here and Aedan and Aust helped her get her up on her feet again, but it was too late. The rumble turned into a loud roaring as the snow covered us all, turning everything white and then black as we got dragged along the hillside and covered under a thick layer of snow.

Gasping for air I started digging my way out of the snow. It took me a short while, but I managed to free myself. As I looked around, no one other than myself was there. About 100 feet down the hill, I suddenly see a lit torch. I start shouting towards it, but my shouting goes unanswered, overshadowed by strong wind. Tried lighting a torch as well, but I gave up as it wouldn't light in these conditions.

Then I see a glow coming from beneath me, two figures light up in the snow. As I thought that they must be two of my companions, I frantically start digging in the snow. I have nothing else to dig with than my bare hands, so I couldn't move as much snow as I would like. Then I feel something, it's a hand. An orcish hand, this must be [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos|Santiago]]! Pulled him out of the snow and the two of us start digging for [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] as well. We could hear Rotom digging underneath us as well and she managed to reach us as well.

In the meanwhile we could see that Aust managed to get over to us as he saw the glowing figures as well. He was the one that lit the torch. Still no sign of Aedan or Amala. We started looking around and shouting for them. No response. Then two figures appear through the snow, walking towards us. It's Aedan and Amala, with the sled. Luckily we managed to find everyone and everything, this could've gone way worse... Some of us took quite the beating however and Amala, Aust and Santiago healed those of us who needed it most. We gathered ourselves and set out towards our destination again.

We walked through the thick snow again for about half an hour. Through the snow, we see three spikes appear from the ground. We can see them still slowly growing larger and larger, hearing the mountain groan as they spring forth from the ground. Is this what caused the earthquake, these spikes bursting from the ground? We walk up to it to inspect it, as soon as we got closer, it looked familiar. Rotom carried a couple of shards of this material with her as well. Santiago walked over to the metallic spikes and put his hands on one of them. He said it felt soft and malleable, but also incredibly cold. Way colder than our immediate surroundings. Santiago wouldn't be Santiago if he didn't poke around it some more. He got his torch close to the metal to heat it up for a while. No reaction at first, but the metal seemed to harden up after a while.

Again, a rumbling sound, different this time. By the time we lifted our heads towards the sound, we saw a couple of dwarves riding on goats. A broad dwarven woman with a goatee line hails us, introducing herself as [[Girsa Splintersword]], and asks us what our business is here. Santiago starts telling we're here on official business from [[Termalaine]], but she's got a suspicious look on her face looking at Santiago. I saw her concerns and addressed her in dwarvish to try to reassure her that he's alright and can be trusted. Took a bit of convincing, but she trusted us. Mentions to Santiago that the metallic spike is a metal called chardalyn. Dwarves mine it in the mountain. Said she would take us to the dwarven settlement, [[Battlehammar Hold]].

After another half hour walking through the snowy hill going up to [[Kelvin's Cairn]], we arrive at the dwarven valley. The road towards their settlement seems to sink into the mountain the further we walk, until the stone walls on our sides stand tall and we are met by a great stone slab of a door, ornamented in angular dwarven runes. The doors grind open after Girsa hails the dwarven guards on the other side. Through the door, we enter a great hallway, tall pillars on each side. But, hardly any sign of dwarves. I suppose we were expecting a bustling community of dwarves, but instead it seems this place is almost abandoned. Following the path down the hallway, we see empty homes, taverns and shops. Hardly any lit torches. These hall are empty. 

Santiago asks Girsa about this situation. Girsa answers that the dwarves that used to live here pushed deeper into the mountain to mine and forge chardalyn, emptying the hold up top. Some dwarves still remain here, although most of them look older. Hardly any younger looking dwarves are around. 

Girsa takes us to a tavern, Dumathoins Ale. We are sat at a table and drinks are fetched. Girsa says she will talk to the queen to see if she would give us an audience. She leaves the tavern and we see her walking up a couple of stone steps, toward a platform high above our heads.

In the meanwhile, Santiago takes Kingsporth out of his backpack and tells him to serve us our drinks, as that's what he was supposed to be good at. Taking his silver platter, Kingsporth hobbles back and forth between the bard and our table to bring our heavy stone mugs of ale, one by one.

I walk up to the bartender and start chatting about the dire situation in Battlehammer Hold. A lot of dwarves moved deeper into the mountain, but the queen didn't want them to. Queen said the metal made the king go mad. Still, a lot of folks went anyway and started mining and forging the stuff. There's a couple of rumours of some other dwarves going mad as well, but none the bartender knew personally.

Girsa came down the stairs again, walking over to our table. Queen was ready to see us. We follow Girsa up the same stairs, into a different part of the hold. We reach a platform sitting on top of stone pillars, lit braziers on the sides. On the opposite end we see an ornate stone throne, with dwarven runes engraved in it. The throne is surrounded by silvered orc skulls on the floor. On the throne sits a woman, the dwarven queen, [[Queen Brunhilda Battlehammar]]. Santiago pushes me over, having heard me speak dwarvish before, saying I was their spokesperson. I'm not the best talker on the team, but figured I might as well give it a shot in their native tongue.

Walking up to the throne, I can see Queen Brunhilda had a stern, but sad look on her face. Addressing her in dwarvish, I introduce ourselves, say we're on official business from Termalaine, wanting to exchange gems and trout for food. She expressed her worries seeing Santiago, an orc, in her throne room. Managed to convince her of Santiago's trustworthiness. Queen Brunhilde starts to explain there isn't a lot to trade for with their settlement, as most dwarves left for the deeper enclave to start mining chardalyn. More and more dwarves left the upper settlement and went deeper into the mountain, to live and work in the mining enclave. 

The king, still sane at the time, was enthused by this new metal a local blacksmith apparently found. Soft and malleable when mined, rock hard when heated. These were very promising features compared to traditional iron mined here. Armor, weapons and trinkets were made of this metal for the king and he started to wear that instead of the traditional iron armor. However, after a while, the king showed more and more signs of erratic behaviour, which eventually turned into a crippling madness. After the queen ordered the dwarves to stop mining and forging this metal because of her husband's dire situation, a lot of them showed mutinous behaviour and disobeyed her orders, flouting at the idea that the metal caused it.

Asking the queen if it's alright to see and talk to the king to see if we can perhaps help out, she was a bit hesitant to let a group of strangers inside the king's chambers. Assuring her that I was a professional monster hunter dealing with this kind of stuff and that we had the best intentions, she eventually agreed and ordered her guards to take us to the king's chambers. The rest of the group didn't understand one word that was said, as none of them spoke dwarvish, so I relayed the gist of our conversation to them. They agreed to investigate the king's madness and see if we can help out.

To the side of the throne, the stone wall shifted backwards, opening a doorway into another room, the queen's chambers. As we walked inside, we saw the guards taking up formations near a door at the back of the chambers, spears pointing towards the door. We could hear maddened cries and laughter coming from behind the door. The queen walked up to the door and knocks on it, mentioning that someone's there to visit him and stay calm. No response. The queen backed away and ordered her guards to open the door and restrain him. One of the soldiers opened the door slowly, peeking inside the pitch black room. No king to be seen or heard. As the soldier walked into the king's chamber, we saw the king ambushing the soldier from the side, jumping on his back. The other soldiers rushed to his aid and managed to restrain him in a corner of the room, spears pointing at him. Asking for the queen's permission first, I manacle the king for his and our safety.

With the situation calmed down, started taking in the state of the king's chambers. Thrashed furniture, scratched stonework and general filth on the walls and floors. We can also see various shards and bent pieces of chardalyn items on the floor, which the king must have broken to bits in a frenzied rage. As the king was sat on a chair, we could see another shard of chardalyn sticking out from his side, his body covered in all kinds of scratches and cuts. Seemed like he took to hurting himself recently. We managed to get the piece of chardalyn out and heal him up, but it didn't do much for his mental state. 

After taking a good look at the king, I could see his skin was a darkened grey, his eyes almost lifeless and cloudy. The king was still raging, frothing at the mouth and uttering meaningless moans and groans. This was no simple madness, this was caused by magic. Mindflayer magic. The king, once a noble and proud mountain dwarf, was now a mere derro, a dwarf cursed by magic. I knew the king could be helped, but it was not within our power. 

We needed someone very adept at healing magic to help the king out of his predicament. There was none of us or anyone nearby powerful enough to lift this curse. We figured we might need to go to Easthaven to see if there's a mage or cleric powerful enough to help out. However, we figured we could help with come healing and calming magic to help the king recover from his wounds and temporarily stop his rage. Still, it did not return his ability to speak. Seeing the now calmed down king in his chair, the queen walked up to him and hold him in her arms, seemingly the first time since a very long while. 

The queen mentions that sometimes the king does seem to speak in his sleep, although it's in a language no one understand around here. If we were to sleep in the queen's chambers, we might be able to hear him in the night, to see if we could make sense of it. We agreed to do that when night would fall. The queen thanks us for our help and offers her help setting up a possible trade with the dwarven enclave. It happened to be that the dwarven leader was residing in Battlehammer Hold. The queen asked for him to be fetched to the tavern.

We go down the stairs towards the tavern again and wait for the enclave's leader to arrive. We see an unusual dwarven figure enter the tavern. A dark-skinned bald and beardless dwarf walks over to our table and introduces himself as [[Bailon the Beardless]]. Introducing ourselves, we start talking trade, offering gems and trout in exchange for food. Bailon seems very interested in this idea and start negotiating a contract with Amala. Having finalised the trade deal, he offered to take us to [[Deep Delver's Enclave]]. Given that it has been a long day already for us, we asked if he could travel back tomorrow as well, after we all had a night's rest. Bailon agreed and stayed for the night

Walking up the stairs towards the throne room, we take the queen up on her offer to let us sleep in the chamber next to the king's. Aedan and I decide to keep watch and see if we could hear the king mutter in his sleep. At first we only heard senseless crazed moaning and shouting, but at times his speech seemed to be more structured, although in a language unbeknownst to me. Aedan however seemed to be able understand what the king was saying in deep speech and was able to make out three repeating sentences:

- The red star made me do it
- All praise Crenshinibon
- Gorom is talking again

The mentioning of a red star and Crenshinibon sounded familiar to the both of us. Both visions of Aedan and me were underneath a sky lit by a single red star. It was also not the first mention of Crenshinibon, having heard and read that at the [[Sunless Grove]]. The rest of the night was uneventful and all got some rest for the travel towards the enclave tomorrow.

**23 Nightal - Battlehammer Hold**

As we wake up and get ourselves ready to go to the dwarven enclave, Santiago casts a spell to see if there was any invisible creature lingering around the chamber that might have caused the king's madness, but no creature was to be seen. As soon as he turned around to mention this to us, his face grew pale as he mentioned seeing three spirits hovering behind Rotom: [[Sephak]], [[Marlon Tayte|Marlon]] and another human. We all turned to look at Rotom, but saw nothing. The spirits seemed to be just hovering behind Rotom, doing nothing else than stare into some void.

Then we're met by Bailon who has come to fetch us. We set out from Battlehammer Hold towards the enclave, following a path through some caverns deeper into the mountain. As we're navigating our way through a narrow path in the mountain where we could only walk single file, we suddenly hear a loud bang and the cavern collapses behind us, partially barring the way back. We hear shouting coming from the front. 

Santiago walks back and looks over the fallen boulders, seeing three invisible duergar that he's still able to see because of the spell he cast earlier. He yells "Ambush!" as he jumps over the boulders and runs up to attack the duergar, disabling the invisibility on one of them as he made a strike with his rapier. Rotom and I took ranged shots from behind the boulder, after which Rotom also jumped over the boulders to engage in close combat. We made short work of these three duergar, but the rest of the party sounded like they we're still engaging another threat.

Running down the narrow path, we see Aedan, Aust and Bailon engaging three more duergar, one of which was wearing a mechanized suit with a hammer and a claw, holding Aust in its grip. Bailon was already looking rough too. We all start tanking on the mechanized duergar, but its armour is tough as nails and his exposed head is a small target. It takes us a couple of swings and shots, but in the end we finally manage to take it down with an arrow between the eyes. His body falls limp and the mechanized suits drops to the floor. Apparently, there were two more duergar. One lay dead on a frozen pool in the cavern behind the mechanized duergar, and another one that managed to flee.

Behind the duergar's head we find a glowing crystal, it's a familiar sight to me. This was a spell gem, a gem that could contain a single spell so it could be cast at will, regardless of the initial casting duration. We used those gems back in Blingdenstone to help with the mining efforts. Santiago identifies the spell being contained in the gem as Dissonant Whispers. Was this being used to drive the duergars mad? Or was this a weapon, ready to be used by the duergar contained in this suit?

Santiago started wondering out loud if Kingsporth would fit inside the mechanized suit. This idea sounded both awesome and terrifying at the same time...

====================

Earthquake. Avalanche. 

Three spikes from the ground. Malleable metal, similar to shard in Rotom's possession.

Dwarves on goats arrive. We tell them we're on official business from Termalaine. Takes a bit of convincing to tell the female dwarven captain, Girsa Splintersword.

We travel with the dwarves to their settlement, Battlehammer Hold. Great stone door. We enter hallway, quite empty. Santiago asks about the scarcity of dwarves in the settlement. Dwarves pushed into the mountain to mine the metal, emptying the hold up top. Queen didn't want the settlement to be emptied for the mining.

The captain takes us to a tavern, Dumathoins Ale. I talk to the bartender, asking about the empty halls. Queen didn't want the dwarves to mine because of the king going mad because of the metal. Rumours of a couple of dwarves going mad as well, but the bartender didn't know anyone himself. Girsa comes back, queen is ready to talk to us.

We walk up the stairs, up to a platform with a dais, covered in silvered orc skulls. Queen Brunhilde Battlehammer. Looks sad. Dwarves were mutinous when queen said dwarves shouldn't explore this new metal. Dwarven king got enthused by this metal when local blacksmith found it.

I convince the queen to take us to her husband, the mad king, to let us take a look at his situation. We restrain the king. Metal shard in his side. I know of mindflayer magic that can turn dwarves mad, turn them into derro.

Talk to Bailon the Beardless, leader from the enclave. Bald and dark skinned. We agreed to come with him tomorrow to visit the enclave, look around and see where

We rest up next to the king's room, hear him talking gibberish. Aedan hears him mutter stuff in deep speech.

- The red star made me do it
- Gorom is talking again
- All praise Crenshinibon

Santiago mentions Rotom is followed by 3 spirits, one of them is Marlon, one is Sephak's and another human.

We follow Bailon deeper into the mountain, towards Deep Delver's Enclave. Suddenly boulders fall behind us, ambush. Two arrows hit Bailon. Santiago sees duergar behind us. We fight three duergar, while the three others battle some others down the tight cavern. After we dispatch the three behind us, we run down the tunnel to help the others. There were three more duergar. One like we saw behind us, one in mechanized armor and there supposedly was another hidden one.

Gem inside Hammerer armor, spell gem. Orange piece of quartz. Gem can contain a single spell you can cast immediately, even spells that take longer to cast. Mention this to party.