# Session 10

**20 Nightal - Termalaine**

Before we set out for the Dwarven Valley, we stayed for a couple of days in [[Termalaine]] to rest and prepare for our journey eastwards. As we head a couple of days, I figured that I would attempt at making some oil of etherealness out of the vial of ectoplasm I managed to harvest from the ghost in the mine. It took me the better part of a day, but I managed to make the potion. It should come in handy when one of us wants or needs to traverse the Ethereal plane.

Figured the owlbear feathers would make a nice pillow for [[Kesni]], so I set out to find someone in town who could make a pillow from them. I gave the pillow to Kesni as a present when I told her I would be leaving again for a while in a couple of days. She was sad that I was leaving again, but was very happy to have gotten the very comfortable pillow. As much as I want to be around more often for her, I just can't. It's not safe enough here yet and I feel we've barely uncovered what's going on around this place. There's people looking for us, can't have them barging in on Kesni, or even Oarus for that matter.

**21 Nightal - Termalaine**
We talked to Oarus to prepare for our negotiations with the dwarves. Oarus gave us a bag of gems that we could show the dwarves as a sign of goodwill. Also, Amala would come along as a liaison of Termalaine who could work out the negotiations with the dwarves. 

**22 Nightal - Termalaine**

We started prepping for our journey. Oarus had a sled available that we could use as a transport. We set out for the Dwarven Valley under a dark, colourless sky. There was a bit of snowfall when we left, but that would pick up to heavier snow as we went eastwards. We decided to take the shorter route through the hills instead instead of taking the roads south, east and then north again. The terrain was a bit tougher to handle, but we managed quite fine. Until Aidan seemed to notice something. 

Aidan got down on one knee to feel the ground and listen. As soon as I wanted to ask what he noticed, we all heard something too. A deep rumble, that kept getting louder and louder. As soon as we knew what it would be, we were too late. [[Aust Rime|Aust]] shouted "Avalanche!" and started running for a hillock that looked like it would be able to give us some shelter from the wall of snow that was about to bury us all. Santiago, Rotom and I made it to the hillock and brace ourselves for what was coming. Amala tripped while running over here and Aidan and Aust helped her get her up on her feet again, but it was too late. The rumble turned into a loud roaring as the snow covered us all, turning everything white and then black as we got dragged along the hillside and covered under a thick layer of snow.

Gasping for air I started digging my way out of the snow. It took me a short while, but I managed to free myself. As I looked around, no one other than myself was there. About 100 feet down the hill, I suddenly see a lit torch. I start shouting towards it, but my shouting goes unanswered, overshadowed by strong wind. Tried lighting a torch as well, but I gave up as it wouldn't light in these conditions.

Then I see a glow coming from beneath me, two figures light up in the snow. As I thought that they must be two of my companions, I frantically start digging in the snow. I have nothing else to dig with than my bare hands, so I couldn't move as much snow as I would like. Then I feel something, it's a hand. An orcish hand, this must be Santiago! Pulled him out of the snow and the two of us start digging for Rotom as well. We could hear Rotom digging underneath us as well and she managed to reach us as well.

In the meanwhile we could see that Aust managed to get over to us as he saw the glowing figures as well. He was the one that lit the torch. Still no sign of Aidan or Amala. We started looking around and shouting for them. No response. Then two figures appear through the snow, walking towards us. It's Aidan and Amala, with the sled. Luckily we managed to find everyone and everything, this could've gone way worse... Some of us took quite the beating however and Amala, Aust and Santiago healed those of us who needed it most. We gathered ourselves and set out towards our destination again.

We walked through the thick snow again for about half an hour. Then the ground starts trembling again... We braced ourselves for the worst, but no avalanche this time. From the ground, three spikes burst out of the snow, growing larger and larger for a couple of second, until they stop emerging from the ground. We walk up to it to inspect it, as soon as we got closer, it looked familiar. Rotom carried a couple of shards of this material with her as well. Santiago walked over to the metallic spikes and put his hands on one of them. He said it felt soft and malleable, but also incredibly cold. Way colder than our immediate surroundings. Santiago wouldn't be Santiago if he poke around it some more. He got his torch close to the metal to heat it up for a while. No reaction at first, but the metal seemed to harden up after a while.

Again, a rumbling sound, different this time. By the time we lifted our heads towards the sound, we saw a couple of dwarves riding on goats. A broad dwarven woman with a goatee line hails us, introducing herself as Girsa Splintersword, and asks us what our business is here. Santiago starts telling we're here on official business from Termalaine, but she's got a suspicious look on her face looking at Santiago. I saw her concerns and addressed her in dwarvish to try to reassure her that he's alright and can be trusted. Took a bit of convincing, but she trusted us. Mentions to Santiago that the metallic spike is a metal called chardalyn. Dwarves mine it in the mountain. Said she would take us to the dwarven settlement, Battlehammer Hold.

After another half hour walking through the snowy hill going up to Kelvin's Cairn, we arrive at the dwarven valley. The road towards their settlement seems to sink into the mountain the further we walk, until the stone walls on our sides stand tall and we are met by a great stone slab of a door, ornamented in angular dwarven runes. The doors grind open after Girsa hails the dwarven guards on the other side. Through the door, we enter a great hallway, tall pillars on each side. But, hardly any sign of dwarves. I suppose we were expecting a bustling community of dwarves, but instead it seems this place is almost abandoned. Following the path down the hallway, we see empty homes, taverns and shops. Hardly any lit torches. These hall are empty. 

Santiago asks Girsa about this situation. Girsa answers that the dwarves that used to live here pushed deeper into the mountain to mine and forge chardalyn, emptying the hold up top. Some dwarves still remain here, although most of them look older. Hardly any younger looking dwarves are around. 

Girsa takes us to a tavern, Dumathoins Ale. We are sat at a table and drinks are fetched. Girsa says she will talk to the queen to see if she would give us an audiency. She leaves the tavern and we see her walking up a couple of stone steps, toward a platform high above our heads.

In the meanwhile, Santiago takes Kingsporth out of his backpack and tells him to serve us our drinks, as that's what he was supposed to be good at. Taking his silver platter, Kingsporth hobbles back and forth between the bard and our table to bring our heavy stone mugs of ale, one by one.

I walk up to the bartender and start chatting about the dire situation in Battlehammer Hold. A lot of dwarves moved deeper into the mountain, but the queen didn't want them to. Queen said the metal made the king go mad. Still, a lot of folks went anyway and started mining and forging the stuff. There's a couple of rumours of some other dwarves going mad as well, but none the bartender knew personally.

Girsa came down the stairs again, walking over to our table. Queen was ready to see us. We follow Girsa up the same stairs, into a different part of the hold. We reach a platform sitting on top of stone pillars, lit braziers on the sides. On the opposite end we see an ornate stone throne, with dwarven runes engraved in it. On the throne sits a woman, the dwarven queen, Queen Brunhilda Battlehammar. Santiago pushes me over, having heard me speak dwarvish before, saying I was their spokesperson. I'm not the best talker on the team, but figured I might as well give it a shot in their native tongue.

The queen has a stern, but sad look on her face.

====================

Earthquake. Avalanche. 

Three spikes from the ground. Malleable metal, similar to shard in Rotom's possession.

Dwarves on goats arrive. We tell them we're on official business from Termalaine. Takes a bit of convincing to tell the female dwarven captain, Girsa Splintersword.

We travel with the dwarves to their settlement, Battlehammer Hold. Great stone door. We enter hallway, quite empty. Santiago asks about the scarcity of dwarves in the settlement. Dwarves pushed into the mountain to mine the metal, emptying the hold up top. Queen didn't want the settlement to be emptied for the mining.

The captain takes us to a tavern, Dumathoins Ale. I talk to the bartender, asking about the empty halls. Queen didn't want the dwarves to mine because of the king going mad because of the metal. Rumours of a couple of dwarves going mad as well, but the bartender didn't know anyone himself. Girsa comes back, queen is ready to talk to us.

We walk up the stairs, up to a platform with a dais, covered in silvered orc skulls. Queen Brunhilde Battlehammer. Looks sad. Dwarves were mutinous when queen said dwarves shouldn't explore this new metal. Dwarven king got enthused by this metal when local blacksmith found it.

I convince the queen to take us to her husband, the mad king, to let us take a look at his situation. We restrain the king. Metal shard in his side. I know of mindflayer magic that can turn dwarves mad, turn them into derro.

Talk to Bailon the Beardless, leader from the enclave. Bald and dark skinned. We agreed to come with him tomorrow to visit the enclave, look around and see where

We rest up next to the king's room, hear him talking gibberish. Aedan hears him mutter stuff in deep speech.

- The red star made me do it
- Gorom is talking again
- All praise crenshinibon

Santiago mentions Rotom is followed by 3 spirits, one of them is Marlon, one is Sephak's and another human.

We follow Bailon deeper into the mountain, towards Deep Delver's Enclave. Suddenly boulders fall behind us, ambush. Two arrows hit Bailon. Santiago sees duergar behind us. We fight three duergar, while the three others battle some others down the tight cavern. After we dispatch the three behind us, we run down the tunnel to help the others. There were three more duergar. One like we saw behind us, one in mechanized armor and there supposedly was another hidden one.

Gem inside Hammerer armor, spell gem. Orange piece of quartz. Gem can contain a single spell you can cast immediately, even spells that take longer to cast. Mention this to party.