# Session 11
We dusted ourselves off after the confrontation with the invisible duergar. Everybody got roughed up a bit, but we managed to get out of the ambush pretty okay. In the meanwhile [[Santiago]] was still eyeing up [[Kingsporth]] and the mechanized suit, lifting him in the steering compartment to see if he would fit, to no avail. Seeing me looking at him, Santiago motioned for me to come have a look. I took a moment gauging the machine, but I couldn't fathom how this would work without additional tools and materials. [[Bailon the Beardless|Bailon]] mentions that the blacksmiths in [[Deep Delver's Enclave]] might know how to make it work. 

Hearing this, we figured we might want to take the suit with us to have someone look at it. Following Bailon, we start dragging the mech suit through various paths and caverns, until we reached a large cavern. Deep down below, we saw what looked like an abandoned stone city. Various stone buildings of different shapes and sizes, no light to be seen. Bailon mentioned it's ancient, has been here for a long time. Opposite of the cavern, we see [[Deep Delver's Enclave]]. From over here we saw a massive black column rise from the middle of the settlement, covered in orange glowing runes. We continued our path towards the city and reached it not long after.

Soon after we arrive in the enclave, we saw a couple of kids running past us, chased of by a dwarven woman with a rolling pin. Bailon welcomes us to Deep Delver's Enclave. Introduced the town's purpose, mining the growing metal. They apparently give kids a look inside the mines where it's safe. Asking whether some mining would be unsafe, Bailon says that some of the caverns haven't been fully explored yet and some danger might lurk in the dark. Bailon also mentions that the abandoned city down below also hasn't been fully explored yet. It's large, mysterious and strange markings of red stars are found throughout the city, which apparently is called Shadowreach. This immediately reminds me of my vision and Aedan's dream, the red star in the sky, bathing the landscape in a red sheen. Maybe we could learn more about our visions there.

The dwarven woman returns, gesturing to Bailon to come over. The woman speaks to Bailon in dwarvish about a missing goat. Hearing this, I walk over and inquire about this missing goat. The woman looked a bit ashamed at me for asking about it, not expecting any of us to understand dwarvish. She then switched to common, told us her name is [[Sigha]] and explained what happened. She had a goat named Gary that she kept in a pen. One day, the goat was gone and she kept looking for it. When we said we'd keep an eye out for the goat, the woman and Bailon mentioned that more was disappearing from around town. Various items had been stolen. Bailon asks us to hop by the common house later on to discuss this issue.

Wanting to know more about these thefts, we decided to ask the locals. What better place to start than a tavern. We walked to the nearest tavern, the Lucky Lute. First person we talked to was the bartender. Also had something stolen from him. Thought there were dwarven tracks leading away. So we have our first hint, the thief or thieves might be dwarven.

Aedan asks about the abandoned city down below in the cavern. Bartender didn't know a lot about it, but knows there's a dwarven woman with an eye patch researching that place. Apparently, she's also followed around by a pack of kobolds. I recognize this description from when Rotom had the dream about something being locked up in the ninth tower. This is the woman from the Arcane Brotherhood that Rotom initially traveled with. 

Immediately Rotom begins to cower in a corner, muttering quietly that we shouldn't go see this woman. I've never seen her this persistent before. Santiago tried to talk some sense into her, but she wouldn't budge. However, at the mention of shiny buttons, did Rotom loosen up a bit. Driving a hard bargain, Santiago had to empty his pocket for a number of buttons. Rotom then told us, still hesitantly, about the woman from the Arcane Brotherhood and the kobold pack. Her name is Vellynne Harpell, from a prestigious family in the town of Longsaddle. Apparently, that family name is what got her into her school of magic as she didn't have a real knack for magic, like other students did. A snowy owl and a troupe of kobolds keep her company. Rotom used to be part of that same kobold pack, until they kicked her out for "borrowing" too many things.

We hear the door of the tavern open up behind us, and lo and behold. A woman with an eye patch walks in, with a snowy owl resting on her shoulder, taking an empty seat at the bar. Orders the strongest drink available. This must be Vellynne Harpell, and my suspicions were correct when I looked at Rotom. She looked terrified and mouthed that we shouldn't talk to her. Rotom made herself as small as she could and hid behind Aedan. If there's one of us that doesn't listen to any of that, it's Santiago, so he walked over to her, ignoring Rotom's pleading to not go there.

The conversation started with small talk about her business here. She had been investigating and researching the city down below, called Shadowreach. The city had been populated with mages for thousands of years, used to be a magocracy. Santiago then asked bluntly if she was able to cast the Greater Restoration spell required to stop [[King Baerick Battlehammar|Baerick's]] affliction. She said she could, but wanted a favour instead. Either provide her with 100gp of diamond dust, or help her find someone. There's another colleague of the Arcane Brotherhood that she tried to reach but haven't heard from in a while, so she wants us to investigate. Her name's Nass Lantomir, comes from Luskan and lives in a lone cabin north of Maer Dualdon. She's curious why we would help the king though, she suggested investing more into our relationship with Bailon than the king of a doomed city.

The conversation continued on for a while and at one point Vellynne mentioned Crenshinibon. I couldn't resist but walk over as well and introduce myself, Santiago bluffing that we're only here with the two of us. Curious about Vellynne mentioning Crenshinibon, I asked what she knew about it. She mentioned the curious growing metal was called Crenshinibon in another language. The metal is part of a root system, belonging to a kind of organism. Its origins are quite curious and they're not of this world, according to Nass Lantomir, Vellynne's colleague. Apparently it came from a very distant and mysterious place in the sky. The Mages of the Red Star were interested in it as well and founded the city of Shadowreach here in the mountain to research the metal. Shadowreach was competing with another magocracy, Netheril.

I wasn't sure if we could completely trust this woman, but we offered our help nonetheless. Vellynne said she had a bad day as she apparently lost one of her kobolds, called Egu. The kobold perished when they encountered a green slime and couldn't save it. Vellynne asks if we've seen or heard about a face in the rock, but it doesn't ring a bell. Supposedly there's an ancient creature in the mountain, called Gorom. Old as the mountain itself. Vellynne has some questions for it. I tell her we'll keep an eye out for it and report back when we found it.

Santiago and I left Vellynne to her drink at the bar and walked out the tavern, hinting behind her back at the others to follow us. 

================================

Mention to Rotom that one of the kobolds died. Very sad to hear that news. Rotom Aedan sees pack of kobolds, mentions to Rotom. Aust says three of the six have expired, undead. Rotom says hello. One of them stops and sees Rotom. Egu bumps into the one talking. Rotom very distraught to see some of them dead/undead.

We go to the common house to talk to Bailon. Bulette on its roof. Filled with people inside, around 15 people. Board inside filled with notes, about missing stuff. We ask guard to let us in to talk to Bailon. Creatures seem to be able to go invisible and stealing stuff.

Ask about his relationship with king Baerick, they seem to have been friends until the king went mad about 15 years ago. He wants to help out to help the king. Offers to help if we help with the local thefts.

2 kegs of ale
Metal objects
3 goats
Bucket filled with fresh water molten from the frozen waterfall

Meet Jayce Goldsmile, a deep gnome. From Blingdenstone. Passages from the Underdark. Runs a small artifact shop on the Evershade Bazaar near the column. Missing spectacles, quite precious. Heard a faint high pitched squabble, like mice arguing in Undercommon. Mentioned lenses specifically, other one suggested to take tools instead. Heard noise come from counter and disappeared. Manufactures mechanical stuff, specialises in glass stuff.

Santiago informs about the mechanized suit. Bailon offers to pay up the cost for the mech suit.

I vaguely ask about a mage studying these mountains, other than Vellynne. Bailon suggests to talk to Gorom. Gorom is in the Halls of the Protectors. Kind of an oracle. Communicates in dreams and visions. In one of the tunnels in Shadowreach. Bailon offers a guide to help us navigate Shadowreach.