# The Grabbing Greys

**23 Nightal - Deep Delver's Enclave**

We dusted ourselves off after the confrontation with the invisible duergar. Everybody got roughed up a bit, but we managed to get out of the ambush pretty okay. In the meanwhile [[Santiago]] was still eyeing up [[Kingsporth]] and the mechanized suit, lifting him in the steering compartment to see if he would fit, to no avail. Seeing me looking at him, Santiago motioned for me to come have a look. I took a moment gauging the machine, but I couldn't fathom how this would work without additional tools and materials. [[Bailon the Beardless|Bailon]] mentions that the blacksmiths in [[Deep Delver's Enclave]] might know how to make it work. 

Hearing this, we figured we might want to take the suit with us to have someone look at it. Following Bailon, we start dragging the mech suit through various paths and caverns, until we reached a large cavern. Deep down below, we saw what looked like an abandoned stone city. Various stone buildings of different shapes and sizes, no light to be seen. Bailon mentioned it's ancient, has been here for a long time. Opposite of the cavern, we see [[Deep Delver's Enclave]]. From over here we saw a massive black column rise from the middle of the settlement, covered in orange glowing runes. We continued our path towards the city and reached it not long after.

Soon after we arrive in the enclave, we saw a couple of kids running past us, chased of by a dwarven woman with a rolling pin. Bailon welcomes us to Deep Delver's Enclave. Introduced the town's purpose, mining the growing metal. They apparently give kids a look inside the mines where it's safe. Asking whether some mining would be unsafe, Bailon says that some of the caverns haven't been fully explored yet and some danger might lurk in the dark. Bailon also mentions that the abandoned city down below also hasn't been fully explored yet. It's large, mysterious and strange markings of red stars are found throughout the city, which apparently is called [[Shadowreach]]. This immediately reminds me of my vision and [[Aedan]]'s dream, the red star in the sky, bathing the landscape in a red sheen. Maybe we could learn more about our visions there.

The dwarven woman returns, gesturing to Bailon to come over. The woman speaks to Bailon in dwarvish about a missing goat. Hearing this, I walk over and inquire about this missing goat. The woman looked a bit ashamed at me for asking about it, not expecting any of us to understand dwarvish. She then switched to common, told us her name is [[Sigha]] and explained what happened. She had a goat named Gary that she kept in a pen. One day, Gary was gone and she kept looking for it. When we said we'd keep an eye out for Gary, the woman and Bailon mentioned that more was disappearing from around town. Various items had been stolen. Bailon asks us to hop by the common house later on to discuss this issue.

Wanting to know more about these thefts, we decided to ask the locals. What better place to start with this than a tavern. We walked to the nearest tavern, the Lucky Lute. First person we talked to was the bartender. Also had something stolen from him. Thought there were dwarven tracks leading away. So we have our first hint, the thief or thieves might be dwarven. [[Aust Rime|Aust]] sits himself on a stool at the bar, orders a drink and eventually falls asleep on the counter.

Aedan asks about the abandoned city down below in the cavern. Bartender didn't know a lot about it, but knows there's a human woman with an eye patch researching that place. Apparently, she's also followed around by a pack of kobolds. I recognize this description from when [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] had the dream about something being locked up in the ninth tower. This is the woman from the [[Arcane Brotherhood]] that Rotom initially traveled with. 

Immediately Rotom begins to cower in a corner, muttering quietly that we shouldn't go see this woman. I've never seen her this persistent before. [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos|Santiago]] tried to talk some sense into her, but she wouldn't budge. However, at the mention of shiny buttons, did Rotom loosen up a bit. Driving a hard bargain, Santiago had to empty his pocket for a number of buttons. Rotom then told us, still hesitantly, about the woman from the Arcane Brotherhood and the kobold pack. Her name is [[Vellynne Harpell]], from a prestigious family in the town of Longsaddle. Apparently, that family name is what got her into her school of magic as she didn't have a real knack for magic, like other students did. A snowy owl and a troupe of kobolds keep her company. Rotom used to be part of that same kobold pack, until they kicked her out for "borrowing" too many things.

We hear the door of the tavern open up behind us, and lo and behold. A woman with an eye patch walks in, with a snowy owl resting on her shoulder, taking an empty seat at the bar. Orders the strongest drink available. This must be Vellynne Harpell, and my suspicions were correct when I looked at Rotom. She looked terrified and mouthed that we shouldn't talk to her. Rotom made herself as small as she could and hid behind [[Aedan]]. If there's one of us that doesn't listen to any of that, it's Santiago, so he walked over to her, ignoring Rotom's pleading to not go there.

The conversation started with small talk about her business here. She had been investigating and researching the city down below, called Shadowreach. The city had been populated with mages for thousands of years, used to be a magocracy. Santiago then asked bluntly if she was able to cast the Greater Restoration spell required to stop [[King Baerick Battlehammar|Baerick's]] affliction. She said she could, but wanted a favour in return. We needed to provide her with 100gp of diamond dust and help her find someone. There's another colleague of the Arcane Brotherhood that she tried to reach but haven't heard from in a while, so she wants us to investigate. Her name's [[Nass Lantomir]], comes from Luskan and lives in a lone cabin north of Maer Dualdon. Wants to end the Endless Winter. Vellyne's curious why we would help the king though, she suggested investing more into our relationship with Bailon than the king of a doomed city.

The conversation continued on for a while and at one point Vellynne mentioned Crenshinibon. I couldn't resist but walk over as well and introduce myself, Santiago bluffing that we're only here with the two of us, doing business with Santiago's "great friend" Bailon. Curious about Vellynne mentioning Crenshinibon, I asked what she knew about it. She mentioned the curious growing metal was called Crenshinibon in another language. The metal is part of a root system, belonging to a kind of organism. Its origins are quite curious and they're not of this world, according to Nass Lantomir, Vellynne's colleague. Apparently it came from a very distant and mysterious place in the sky. The Mages of the Red Star were interested in it as well and founded the city of Shadowreach here in the mountain to research the metal. Shadowreach was competing with another magocracy, Netheril.

I wasn't sure if we could completely trust this woman, but we offered our help nonetheless. Vellynne said she had a bad day as she apparently lost one of her kobolds, called Egu. The kobold perished when they encountered a green slime and couldn't save it. Vellynne asks if we've seen or heard about a face in the rock, but it doesn't ring a bell. Supposedly there's an ancient creature in the mountain, called Gorom. Old as the mountain itself. Vellynne has some questions for it. I tell her we'll keep an eye out for it and report back when we found it.

Santiago and I left Vellynne to her drink at the bar and walked out the tavern, hinting behind her back at the others to follow us. Once all of us were outside, I told Rotom what happened to Egu. It made her sad hearing that news. Aedan then spotted a group of six kobolds walking by and mentioned this to Rotom. When Rotom took a look, her eyes grew wide for a moment, staring at them with her mouth open. She hesitantly walked toward them, saying hello. One of the kobolds stops and sees Rotom, greeting her with an unfriendly "Hello, thief". Aust mentions that three of the six kobolds are undead, somehow reanimated. Egu bumps into the kobold that stopped, seemingly staring into a void with pupilless red eyes. Rotom starts talking to Egu, but he doesn't respond. The other kobold mentioned that he's not entirely with us anymore, as Vellynne reanimated his corpse when Egu died of the encounter with the green slime. Rotom seemed to be very distraught at seeing some of her old pack turned into hollow undead shells of their former selves. Rotom talked to them for a while.

Afterwards, we discussed what would be the best plan forward. Since we didn't talk to Bailon yet, we decided to go to the common house and ask him for more information about the recent thefts and perhaps inquire if he knew more about the city down below. Walking up to the building, we see a massive creature on its roof. A bulette, or land shark people call them sometimes. As we walk through the front door, we enter the main hall which was packed with people. There's a board filled with notes, apparently most of them are about missing items. People seem to take notes of their possessions from the board and wait in the room to inquire with Bailon about their stuff.

On the opposite end of the room, there's a large wooden door with a guard in front of it. We push ourselves through the crowd and talk to the guard, asking if we could talk to Bailon. The crowd behind us starts to murmur and moan at the sight of us seemingly cutting in line. We mention that we traveled with Bailon to [[Deep Delver's Enclave]] today and saved him in the duergar ambush. The guard went inside to ask Bailon and shortly after, he allowed us through. The moaning of the crowd became even louder, some visibly annoyed.

Bailon greeted us as we walk in, we mentioned we wanted to talk to him about a number of things, including the thefts. He was a bit surprised that we didn't start investigating yet, but we told him that we did have a lead from the bartender that he saw dwarven tracks. Bailon mentions that he had a hunch that the creatures could also go invisible. Adding this together, I thought of only one plausible suspect: the duergar. Hearing this, Bailon nods and agrees that they're likely suspect of stealing the various items. He hands us a list of items that were stolen, it's an incoherent list of random items. Kegs of ale, various metal objects, 3 goats, a bucket with fresh water, the list goes on and on. We assured Bailon that we would get to the bottom of this. Bailon mentioned that there was a hole discovered outside the city gates, leading into the ground. Could be where the duergar surfaced from and escape to.

Still curious about Vellynne mentioning that we would be better off investing in our relationship with Bailon instead of King Baerick, I ask Bailon about his relationship with the court of [[Battlehammar Hold]]. They seem to be in good standing, King Baerick even used to be friends with Bailon, until he went mad. This would be a great chance to get some extra help with healing the king, so I asked if he would be willing to help out an old friend. Bailon seemed to approve of the idea and offered us help if we could solve the case of the missing items.

Santiago sees this as an opportunity to ask Bailon again about the mechanized suit for [[Kingsporth]]. Bailon said that he would pay the price of the modifications of the suit as well when we solved the case.

Having agreed upon helping out the locals, Bailon leads us out into the common room again, introducing us as the group that would investigate the thefts. The crowd's mood changed from annoyed murmuring to soft cheering hearing this.

Among the crowd I spotted a rare sight, another deep gnome woman was here! Curious of how she got here, I walked up to her and introduced myself. She says her name is [[Jayce Goldsmile]], originally from [[Blingdenstone]] as well. Escaped the city like I did, but with a different group. Ended up here. Runs a small artifact shop on the Evershade Bazaar near the glowing metal column. Works on mechanical stuff and specialises in glass items, like vials and lenses. Asking why she was here, she said that she was missing an item as well, her spectacles that she uses for her craft. Over by the counter, she heard a faint high pitched squabble, sounded like arguing mice speaking in Undercommon. Heard someone mention lenses specifically, while another suggested to take some tools instead. She went over to investigate and then quickly saw her spectacles be lifted from the counter, floating through the air and then disappearing.

Bailon asks us if there was anything else he could help out with. I ask a vague question if he knew about another mage studying these mountains, other than Vellynne Harpell. Bailon suggested to go talk to an ancient being from the mountains, [[Gorom]]. Gorom was located in the Halls of the Protectors and is portrayed around here some kind of oracle that communicates in dreams and visions. The Halls of the Protectors is located in one of the tunnels in Shadowreach, and offered us a guide to help us navigate the abandoned city.

But first, we had the duergar thefts to investigate...