# Session 12
While the rest of us were in the town hall talking to [[Bailon the Beardless|Bailon]], [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos|Santiago]] and [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] stayed behind to talk to Rotom's old kobold pack. Rotom and the kobolds reminisce a bit about their time together, when they suddenly notice one of the kobolds holding a pair of spectacles. Asking where they found it, the kobold mentions they found it near some grey dwarves, who weren't using it. Rotom and Santiago convince the kobold to give them the spectacles, in return for a magic item that Santiago made up. He offers the kobold a magic stone with a hole in it and says that it will make the kobold go invisible. Santiago doesn't part with the stone immediately, as he asks to take us to the place where the kobold found the spectacles, where they will receive their reward. The kobold agrees to that offer.

Walking out of the town hall, I see Rotom holding a pair of spectacles, matching the description [[Jayce Goldsmile]] gave me of her stolen spectacles. I mention this to Rotom and that we should return it to Jayce, as it was one of the stolen items. Initially, Rotom doesn't want to depart with the goggles. It takes some convincing that Jayce might have some shiny things for Rotom. She does give me the spectacles in the end. Looking around, I spot Jayce on the way back to her shop.

Jayce's shop is in the centre of town, near the glowing chardalyn column rising from the ground. We enter the shop and greet her as we walk in. Surprised, she looks up from her workbench and says "Back so soon?". We explain the situation with the spectacles that the kobolds found and hand them over to Jayce, after which she's very happy. Rotom asks for something in return and Jayce agrees that it does deserve some reward. She reaches up on a shelf behind her and takes out a small bag that she places on her workbench. She opens it up and takes a pinch of sparkling powder, sprinkling it on top of a small tool on her desk, upon which it turns invisible. Rotom's fascinated by this powder and gladly takes it as a reward. We leave Jayce to her work again and set out with the kobold to find the place where they found the spectacles.

The kobold leads us to the northern gate and takes us into the outskirts of Shadowreach. Walking through a few twisty streets and alleyways, we find a spot with traces of duergar having made camp here. Some leftover food and a small campfire, nothing else of note was to be found here. I spot some tracks leading further into the city and we decide to follow them. The kobold doesn't want to go further into Shadowreach us, and asks Santiago about his reward. Santiago takes out this stone that does have a hole in it, but nothing would indicate that it is magical. He offers the stone to the kobold and says that the bearer can turn invisible if they want. Intrigued by the stone, Santiago looks straight at us and gives us a wink. The kobold stares at the stone for a moment, then looks up and asks "Am I invisible?". The group then immediately acts startled and surprised as we fake not seeing the kobold anymore. Screaming with joy the kobold takes off back to [[Deep Delver's Enclave]] again.

The duergar tracks lead us further into Shadowreach and take us past various abandoned stone buildings, in various states of disrepair. On several buildings we spot markings of a red star. Some time later, the air gets chillier and we see ice and snow covering the floor, and we lose the tracks. A red glowing light is glistening in the icy floor and we start looking for the light source. Walking a bit further, we spot a monolith surrounded by some boulders, giving off a faint humming in our minds. There's a narrow tunnel behind the monolith, leading further into the mountain.

Aedan and I want to inspect the monolith, carefully approaching it. As we come closer, the humming becomes louder and louder. Aedan suddenly realizes it's a repeating message in a language he understands as Deep Speech:

"We are at risk of freezing. Send help. We crashed near a mountain chain."

Is this a distress call of some sort? Earlier someone mentioned this chardalyn coming from a distant alien place. Would this have been a call for help, trying to get people to who or whatever crashed here?

Santiago, Aust and Rotom start inspecting the surroundings, when suddenly Rotom starts screaming like mad. Santiago picks her up and takes her back a bit, where she comes to her senses again. Aedan and I run up to see what's wrong, when she mentions having heard a very loud beeping noise in her mind, driving her mad. Asking if she's heard this beeping before, she mentions hearing it when she took the crystal off of [[Marlon Tayte|Marlon]]'s body. I ask to take a look at the crystal and Rotom reluctantly takes it out of her backpack, holding it very tight in her hands, so nobody can snatch it. Upon closer inspection, I recognize the crystal as a Psi Crystal, a tool used by mindflayers to enhance their telepathic powers and communicate with the hive mind that rules over them, the Elder Brain. We convince Rotom that the crystal is very, _very_ dangerous and we should get rid of it. She reluctantly agrees after offering more buttons and shiny trinkets, letting go of the crystal and dropping it on the floor. Aust takes it upon himself to get rid of it, and smashes the crystal with his battleaxe, shattering it into tiny shards and dust.

The rest start taking a rest, while I scout ahead in the tunnel. The tunnel entrance is very narrow and covered in small sharp spikes of chardalyn. A piece of white fur hangs off one of the chardalyn shards, which I suppose was goat fur. Possibly Gary's. A bit deeper into the tunnel, the hallway descends down into a small room, with stairs leading back up. Not spotting anything, I make my way back to the group and report what I've seen.

We all decide to go into the tunnel and explore. The larger folks of the group get caught in some sharp pieces of chardalyn, cutting them a bit. We reach the room down the tunnel and carefully decide to scout the stairs. We hear some laughing and talking coming from up the stairs. As Aust and I stand at the sides of the stairs to prepare an ambush, Santiago suddenly start shouting about trying to find Gary the goat. The laughing stops for a bit. The talking and laughing then continues. Santiago starts walking up the stairs.

==========================

Rotom gets mad, Santiago takes her away. Rotom says she heard loud beeping when she approached the monolith. I ask to take a look, Rotom reluctantly gets it out of her backpack, holding it tight so I can't grab it. Taking a look, I recognize it as a mindflayer tool they use to enhance their telepathic and communicate with the Elder Brain. We convince her to get rid of it, in exchange for more buttons and my steel mirror.

Rotom puts the purple gem on the ground and Aust smashes it with his axe.

I go exploring the tunnel, see a chamber and stairs. Report back to the group. We crawl through the narrow tunnel. Rotom and I get through fine, the other three are larger and get cut by some sharp pieces of chardalyn poking from the walls.

As we enter the room, I hear laughing coming from the stairs. Aust and I stand at the sides of the stairs to prepare an ambush, as Santiago suddenly starts shouting about finding his goat. Laughing stops, then continues. Santiago walks up the stairs, shouting more about the goat.

Suddenly, Santiago tumbles down, followed by some flasks containing a burning liquid: alchemist's fire. Santiago quickly tries to take off his burning clothes, leaving him without a cloak and pants. We see two duergar up the stairs with crossbows. I fire two bolts at them.

Aust and Rotom run up the stairs and we make quick work of the two duergar. There was a third that fled into a gated tunnel.

Suddenly, two javelins in my back. Two more duergar came running from a room above and behind the stairs. These look more powerful. They cast some kind of spell, which enlarges them to twice their size.

Two duergar come back from the gated tunnel and start shooting crossbows again. Aedan and I make quick work of them, dipping our arrows and bolts into the alchemist's fire.

Aust is taking on one of the larger duergar by himself, Santiago and Rotom and taking on the other one up close. Aedan and I keeping peppering them from afar with arrows and bolts.

Walking up the stairs to get a better view, Rotom and Santiago retreat toward my position. The larger duergar runs over and slashes at all of us with her war pick, inflicting quite a blow on Santiago and me.

Dipping my bolts in the alchemist's fire again for a second round of shots, I fire one at the duergar close to me, killing it. Another bolt to the one near Aust, sets it on fire.

The flames and Aust's axe finish him off.

We discuss what to do next, as we've taken a beating and went through some spell slots. Santiago and I want to go toward Shadowreach again, to take a long rest in a safer place.

The rest stays for a bit and starts exploring. Aust finds a guard room. A table with some papers in a script he doesn't understand. Aust hands me the letters he found in the guard room. It's a list of ingredients and materials. 

At the top of the list, it says:
"Project Sunblight"