# Reaching into the shadows

**23 Nightal - Deep Delver's Enclave**

While the rest of us were in the town hall talking to [[Bailon the Beardless|Bailon]], [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos, or Grok|Santiago]] and [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] stayed behind to talk to Rotom's old kobold pack. Rotom and the kobolds reminisce a bit about their time together, when they suddenly notice one of the kobolds holding a pair of spectacles. Asking where they found it, the kobold mentions they found it near some grey dwarves, who weren't using it. Rotom and Santiago convince the kobold to give them the spectacles, in return for a magic item that Santiago made up. He offers the kobold a magic stone with a hole in it and says that it will make the kobold go invisible. Santiago doesn't part with the stone immediately, as he asks to take us to the place where the kobold found the spectacles, where they will receive their reward. The kobold agrees to that offer.

Walking out of the town hall, I see Rotom holding a pair of spectacles, matching the description [[Jayce Goldsmile]] gave me of her stolen spectacles. I mention this to Rotom and that we should return it to Jayce, as it was one of the stolen items. Initially, Rotom doesn't want to depart with the goggles. It takes some convincing that Jayce might have some shiny things for Rotom. She does give me the spectacles in the end. Looking around, I spot Jayce on the way back to her shop.

Jayce's shop is in the centre of town, near the glowing chardalyn column rising from the ground. We enter the shop and greet her as we walk in. Surprised, she looks up from her workbench and says "Back so soon?". We explain the situation with the spectacles that the kobolds found and hand them over to Jayce, after which she's very happy. Rotom asks for something in return and Jayce agrees that it does deserve some reward. She reaches up on a shelf behind her and takes out a small bag that she places on her workbench. She opens it up and takes a pinch of sparkling powder, sprinkling it on top of a small tool on her desk, upon which it turns invisible. Rotom's fascinated by this powder and gladly takes it as a reward. We leave Jayce to her work again and set out with the kobold to find the place where they found the spectacles.

**23 Nightal - Shadowreach**

The kobold leads us to the northern gate and takes us into the outskirts of Shadowreach. Walking through a few twisty streets and alleyways, we find a spot with traces of duergar having made camp here. Some leftover food and a small campfire, nothing else of note was to be found here. I spot some tracks leading further into the city and we decide to follow them. The kobold doesn't want to go further into Shadowreach us, and asks Santiago about his reward. Santiago takes out this stone that does have a hole in it, but nothing would indicate that it is magical. He offers the stone to the kobold and says that the bearer can turn invisible if they want. Intrigued by the stone, Santiago looks straight at us and gives us a wink. The kobold stares at the stone for a moment, then looks up and asks "Am I invisible?". The group then immediately acts startled and surprised as we fake not seeing the kobold anymore. Screaming with joy the kobold takes off back to [[Deep Delver's Enclave]] again.

The duergar tracks lead us further into Shadowreach and take us past various abandoned stone buildings, in various states of disrepair. On several buildings we spot markings of a red star. Some time later, the air gets chillier and we see ice and snow covering the floor, and we lose the tracks. A red glowing light is glistening in the icy floor and we start looking for the light source. Walking a bit further, we spot a monolith surrounded by some boulders, giving off a faint humming in our minds. There's a narrow tunnel behind the monolith, leading further into the mountain.

Aedan and I want to inspect the monolith, carefully approaching it. As we come closer, the humming becomes louder and louder. Aedan suddenly realizes it's a repeating message in a language he understands as Deep Speech:

"We are at risk of freezing. Send help. We crashed near a mountain chain."

Is this a distress call of some sort? Earlier someone mentioned this chardalyn coming from a distant alien place. Would this have been a call for help, trying to get people to who or whatever crashed here?

Santiago, Aust and Rotom start inspecting the surroundings, when suddenly Rotom starts screaming like mad. Santiago picks her up and takes her back a bit, where she comes to her senses again. Aedan and I run up to see what's wrong, when she mentions having heard a very loud beeping noise in her mind, driving her mad. Asking if she's heard this beeping before, she mentions hearing it when she took the crystal off of [[Marlon Tayte|Marlon]]'s body. I ask to take a look at the crystal and Rotom reluctantly takes it out of her backpack, holding it very tight in her hands, so nobody can snatch it. Upon closer inspection, I recognize the crystal as a Psi Crystal, a tool used by mindflayers to enhance their telepathic powers and communicate with the hive mind that rules over them, the Elder Brain. We convince Rotom that the crystal is very, _very_ dangerous and we should get rid of it. She reluctantly agrees after offering more buttons and shiny trinkets, letting go of the crystal and dropping it on the floor. Aust takes it upon himself to get rid of it, and smashes the crystal with his battleaxe, shattering it into tiny shards and dust.

The rest start taking a rest, while I scout ahead in the tunnel. The tunnel entrance is very narrow and covered in small sharp spikes of chardalyn. A piece of white fur hangs off one of the chardalyn shards, which I suppose was goat fur. Possibly Gary's. A bit deeper into the tunnel, the hallway descends down into a small room, with stairs leading back up. Not spotting anything, I make my way back to the group and report what I've seen.

We all decide to go into the tunnel and explore. The larger folks of the group get caught in some sharp pieces of chardalyn, cutting them a bit. We reach the room down the tunnel and carefully decide to scout the stairs. We hear some laughing and talking coming from up the stairs. As Aust and I stand at the sides of the stairs to prepare an ambush, Santiago suddenly start shouting about trying to find Gary the goat. The laughing stops for a bit. The talking and laughing then continues. Santiago starts walking up the stairs, loudly asking about Gary the goat.

Aust and I stand to the side at the bottom of the stairs, looking at each other, wondering what to do next. Suddenly, we hear Santiago falling down the stairs, followed by a loud cracking of glass and a sudden wave of green flame bursting from the stairway. This was alchemist's fire, an unstable and highly reactive oily compound, almost impossible to extinguish when it's in contact with air. It burned Santiago's pants to a crisp as he was frantically trying to pull them off and putting out the remaining flames on his clothes.

Aust, Rotom and I ran up the stairs, narrowly avoiding the burning patches of alchemist's fire, when we were met by two duergar at the top of the stairs. We saw a third one who ran into a gated tunnel. The three of us made quick work of the two dwarves, Aust and Rotom up close, I stand behind them firing my crossbow.

Just as we thought we cleared the stairway, I feel a sharp pain in my back. I got hit pretty hard by two javelins from behind. As I turned around to see who hit me, I see two duergar standing on a ridge above the stairs. Right at that moment, the two duergar look at each other and give each other a nod and start casting some spell. They start increasing in size until they're at least 8ft tall! Aust, Santiago and Rotom rush up close to them. I hang back on the stairs

Aedan has joined me on the stairs in the meanwhile. The duergar that fled into the gated tunnel returned with another one as reinforcement, firing their crossbows at me and Aedan. Aedan and I are standing near a pool of burning alchemist's fire. Aedan dips his arrow in it and I dip a crossbow bolt in it. We take aim for the two duergar in the gated tunnel and watch as the collapse from the hits and the fire.

Meanwhile, Aust is fighting one giant duergar by himself, while Rotom and Santiago are busy attacking the other. Aedan and I pepper both of them with arrows and bolts, dipping them in the fire before we fire them. A couple of attacks and shots later, I manage to take one giant duergar down. Another shot at the one near Aust, setting it on fire as well. Aust finishes off the duergar with one fell swoop of his axe as it's distracted by the flames, trying to put it out. That was the last of them.

The party has taken quite a beating so we want to rest up somewhere. We're not sure if we should do it here in the duergar fortress, or back in Shadowreach. As we investigate our immediate surroundings, we found a room that was supposed to be trapped with the alchemist's fire, which now had an open door and two remaining bottles.

Aust found another room, which looked like some kind of guard station. Some crates, a chair and a desk covered with all kinds of documents. Aust finds some papers in a script he can't read, which he suspects is Dwarvish, so he hands them to me. 

It seemed to be a list of ingredients and materials, which look like the stuff that was missing in town. The one thing that stood out from the letter was its title:

"Project Sunblight"