# Unexpected relatives
**24 Nightal - Shadowreach**
As we inspected the interior of the duergar fortress, we deemed it too dangerous to rest there as it was their terrain and we didn't know what or who else was in there. We decided to head back out to Shadowreach again to find some shelter in a building close to the fortress entrance. Aedan finds a granary with a view on the monolith and the entrance. Not an ideal place to camp in as it's damp and mildewy, but we had to make do with it.

We decided on who took turns for the watch that night, it were Aust, Aedan and me who would watch over the surroundings. Aust's watch goes by quietly, although he did mention he spotted a small creature peeking out of the entrance when we changed guard.

Keeping an eye on the entrance, I too saw the creature peek out. It seemed to be a duergar, but smaller than usual. As opposed to enlarging themselves, would they be able to shrink in size too? I didn't see the creature again for the rest of my watch. Just as I was about to wake up Aedan for his turn, I saw something fluttering In the corner of my eye.

On the wall I saw a white moth, resting on a couple of small mushrooms growing in the corner of the room. Looking over to Aedan, it didn't seem like this was one of the moths that would flutter around him all the time, as no other moth was to be seen. The moth took off and flew out of the window. As I fixated my gaze on it, it flew through the air for a while. Out of nowhere, it duplicated into two moths. Then four, then eight, again and again until there was a whole swarm of moths, swirling in a circular motion. Looking at the bottom ones, they seemed to start bleeding and turn red. This wasn't good...

From the whirling flurry of bloody moths, a humanoid shape starts to form. A white gown, bloodied at the bottom, obsidian skin and white hair. Omareth Baenre appears again, floating in the cold cavernous air. Not a dream, not a vision, in the flesh this time. Floating through the air, he flies through the window into the room where the rest are sleeping. Immediately he asks to start no trouble and demands a drop of my blood, otherwise he threatened to kill everybody else.

Aust snaps out of his meditative state and tries to cast a spell to bind Omareth, but the spell fails. Santiago wakes up as well, and also tries to bind Omareth in his place with a spell, which also fails. As a serious warning, a burst of magic missiles fly toward Santiago, greatly injuring him. I urge everyone to remain calm if they want to live. 

I hesitantly offer up my hand to Omareth for a drop of blood. Omareth firmly grabs my hand and pricks a needle in it, spilling some of my blood. Before he disappears into a mist, he looks me dead in the eye and says:

> Delban is coming, and I am his herald

Quite shaken after this ordeal, but relieved that no one got killed, I find a silent corner in the granary and try go to sleep.

**25 Nightal - Shadowreach**

After the night's rest we gather our things and discuss the plan for today. We want to further investigate the inner halls of the duergar fortress and clear the place of any threat. Rotom scouts the entrance and whispers down the hallway it's all clear.

We go into the fortress and further explore the rooms and hallways we haven't been in yet. We see a green light coming from the gated hallway. As we open the gate, Santiago barges through the hallway

======================

We get out of the building and go towards the cave entrance. Rotom scouts ahead and whispers down the hallway that all is clear.

We walk into the duergar outpost. Go through the gate and follow a hallway into a room embedded in green light from a fire pit burning with alchemist's fire. I suggest to Santiago to use his magic to spot these invisible buggers. As he does so, he immediately spots one hiding behind crates further into the mine, and start charging at it.

Instead of attacking the duergar immediately, like we were used from him, he starts talking to it and suggests the duergar is his child and needs to protect its father with its life. The small duergar does so and immediately throws a javelin to a spider on the ceiling behind him.

The spiders come closer and spit webbing on the duergar and Santiago and they are stuck to the ground. Aedan whips one spider and pulling it closer, just in range of my crossbow, which I use to fire at it.

The spiders attack Aust and Santiago, missing Aust, but hitting Santiago with their poisoned fangs.

See two duergar running past, we chase past them. I run to the south, inspecting another hallway. See another wall of crates, hear voices behind them, shouting "please, help us! take us!". Walking over the crates, two dwarves in a cell.

Aust and Aedan see another hallway ending at a stone door, seemingly trapped with bars and arrow slits. Rotom can't find any trigger, so we assume the trap is manually triggered by someone behind the slits or door.

At this point, we hear a deep loud voice shouting "Release the Grimjaw!" from the northern part of the cavern. Rotom and I run towards it, as we can't find Santiago and think he's in trouble. We hear the stone door burst open behind us, something storming at Aust and Aedan.

We spot Santiago talking to an enormous dwarf called Nildar Sunblight, who appears to be something of a leader, who was seemingly awakened by Santiago exploring this part of the cavern alone. Nildar's issuing commands to four lesser duergar, standing in the hallway. The duergar start throwing javelins at Santiago, and at Rotom, who's made it nearly towards the duergar at this point. Rotom runs across the hallway, slides underneath between Nildar's legs and start distracting our opponents by groveling and cowering.

Santiago seems to have some sort of control over Nildar, as Santiago keeps suggesting actions to take and commands to issue, to which the leader obliges. Nildar sends two of the duergar off to fight the others at the other entrance, while the other two remain, assessing Nildar's erratic behaviour. I use this opportunity to dispatch one duergar and injure the other one severely.

Meanwhile, Aust and Aedan are fighting the creature having burst through the stone doors. It's a large firbolg, quite a bit larger still than Aedan already is. Aust has some trouble resisting Grimjaw'ss blows, but they manage to hold him off. The two duergar that left Nildar's position reappear at the southern door, throwing javelins at Aust and Aedan. Aedan quickly runs for cover and throws a bottle of alchemist's fire at the hall behind Grimjaw, setting Grimjaw and part of the hall on fire.

The one duergar up top was quickly dispatched, and then I left Santiago with Nildar and ran back to the others with Rotom. Seeing the immense firbolg fighting Aust and Aedan, I decided to give it a shot and use a blood curse to limit its attack and movement capabilities. This gives Aust the chance needed to deliver the final blow and disengage from the firbolg and duergar in the tunnel.

The duergar still standing in the hallway assess their chances, not liking them, and taking off toward a rope bridge behind them. Aedan and I quickly run up to the hallway and fire several bolts and arrows, enhanced with the burning alchemist's fire, taking them down.

Santiago was still in Nildar's room, having a friendly chat with them. Somehow having managed to take Nildar's war pick off his hands and convincing them to take off their metal armor, leaving them in a simple vest. Agreeing to Santiago's suggesting it's been a long day and that Nildar should catch some sleep, Nildar settles down into one of the large beds and tries to sleep again.

Nildar says to Santiago: "Say hi to uncle Durth in Caer Dineval"

We regroup and see Santiago approaching, carrying Nildar's magical warpick. Santiago asks us, "Who wants this then?".

Then, we start discussing how to get rid of Nildar.