# Unexpected Relatives

**24 Nightal - Shadowreach**

As we inspected the interior of the [[Duergar|duergar]] fortress, we deemed it too dangerous to rest there as it was their terrain and we didn't know what or who else was in there. We decided to head back out to [[Shadowreach]] again to find some shelter in a building close to the fortress entrance. [[Aedan]] finds a granary with a view on the monolith and the entrance. Not an ideal place to camp in as it's damp and mildewy, but we had to make do with it.

We decided on who took turns for the watch that night, it were [[Aust Rime|Aust]], Aedan and me who would watch over the surroundings. Aust's watch goes by quietly, although he did mention he spotted a small creature peeking out of the entrance when we changed guard.

Keeping an eye on the entrance, I too saw the creature peek out. It seemed to be a duergar, but smaller than usual. As opposed to enlarging themselves, would they be able to shrink in size too? I didn't see the creature again for the rest of my watch. Just as I was about to wake up Aedan for his turn, I saw something fluttering In the corner of my eye.

On the wall I saw a white moth, resting on a couple of small mushrooms growing in the corner of the room. Looking over to Aedan, it didn't seem like this was one of the moths that would flutter around him all the time, as no other moth was to be seen. The moth took off and flew out of the window. As I fixated my gaze on it, it flew through the air for a while. Out of nowhere, it duplicated into two moths. Then there were four, then eight, multiplying again and again until there eventually was a whole swarm of moths, swirling in a circular motion. Looking at the bottom ones, they seemed to start bleeding and turn red. This wasn't good...

From the whirling flurry of bloody moths, a humanoid shape starts to form. A white gown, bloodied at the bottom, obsidian skin and white hair. [[Omareth Baenre]] appears again, floating in the cold cavernous air. This time it's not a dream, not a vision, he was there in the flesh this time. Floating through the air, he flies through the window into the room where the rest are sleeping. Immediately he asks to start no trouble and demands a drop of my blood, otherwise he threatened to kill everybody else. He also warns us not to meddle with the duergar in the fortress, for there would be repercussions.

Aust snaps out of his meditative state and casts a spell to bind Omareth, but Omareth resists it and the spell fails. [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos, or Grok|Santiago]] suddenly wakes up as well, sees Omareth and also tries to bind him in his place with a spell, which Omareth also easily resists. As a grievous warning, a burst of magic missiles fly toward Santiago, greatly injuring him. I start urging everyone to remain calm if they want to live. 

I hesitantly offer up my hand to Omareth for a drop of blood. Omareth firmly grabs my hand and pricks a needle in it, spilling some of my blood. Before he disappears into a mist, he looks me dead in the eye and says:

> [[Delban]] is coming, and I am his herald

Quite shaken after this ordeal, but relieved that no one got killed, I tried to find a silent corner in the granary to gather my thoughts and emotions, wondering why Omareth needed my blood. Tired and weary, I close my eyes and fall asleep.

**25 Nightal - Shadowreach**

After the night's rest we gather our things and discuss the plan for today. We want to further investigate the inner halls of the duergar fortress and clear the place of any threat. [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] scouts the entrance and whispers down the hallway it's all clear.

We go into the fortress and further explore the rooms and hallways we haven't been in yet. We see a green light coming from the gated hallway. As we open the gate, Santiago starts barging through the hallway, towards the source of the green light. We look among ourselves, wondering what he's up to now. We rush in after him and reach a room with a fire bowl, burning with green fire. Must be the same alchemist's fire they threw in the bottles. On the opposite side of the room, we see crates and furniture stacked on top of each other, forming a sort of barricade.

Standing in the room there, I ask Santiago if he sees anything invisible. Casting the spell, he immediately spots one peeking over the barricade and runs towards it. But instead of immediately attacking the small creature, he start talking to it. He suggests that Santiago is its father and that it must protect him with its life. Strangely enough, the duergar immediately does so as it turns around and throws a javelin towards a [[Giant Spider|spider]] hiding on the ceiling.

Two spiders come crawling towards us now, spitting webbing on Santiago and his duergar child. As we spot this, Aedan uses a thorny whip and pulls one of the spiders closer to us. Just in range of my crossbow which I fire twice at it.

The spiders had their sights on Aust and Santiago. One spider misses Aust, but the other one bites into Santiago, as we see his veins blacken as the venom spreads through his body.

Behind the crates, I spot two duergar running past, seemingly trying to find better cover. To the south I spot another corridor, which I start to explore together with Rotom. We sneak through the corridor and find another barricade. From behind the crates I hear voices, shouting "Please, help! Take us with you!". Carefully walking up to the crates and peeking over them, I see two dwarves in a wooden cell.

I see Aust and Aedan come running from the opposite end of the corridor, having run around the other barricade chasing the fleeing duergar. They end up at a hallway ending in a stone door, but they stop just outside of it. Untrusting of this place, they check for traps. Rotom spots some arrow slits in the walls, but can't find any trigger. Could be a manual trigger or duergar hiding behind them, she figures.

While we look around, starting to wonder where Santiago went, we hear a loud voice shouting from the northern part of the fortress: "Release the Grimjaw!". Rotom and I run towards that voice, figuring it must be Santiago who's in trouble. As we run past Aust and Aedan, we hear the grinding of stone on stone, presumable the stone door opening. As I take a look back, I see a huge figure coming from the hallway, storming at them.

Rotom and I run take a left turn into a corridor where we thought the shouting came from, and we're met by Santiago talking to an enormous duergar that went by the name of [[Nildar Sunblight]]. That name, Sunblight! That's the same one as on the manifest. This hulking gray dwarf has the appearance of a leader, wearing shiny armor and wielding a large ornate warpick. Santiago must've alerted Nildar of our presence, but Nildar doesn't seem hostile towards him.

Rotom runs across the corridor, slides underneath Nildar's legs and start confusing the duergar by causing a scene, begging and crying not to kill her and her friends. Looking on to this scene, I hear Santiago suggesting various actions and commands to issue to the duergar, to which Nildar obliges, albeit somewhat confused.

Nildar starts issuing commands to four duergar bursting into this scene from another door at the end of the corridor. Two of them run off to fight off the hostiles at the south gate, presumable meaning Aust and Aedan. Two other duergar remain, assessing Nildar's erratic behaviour. I use this moment of confusing to peek around the corner and fire two crossbow bolts at the two smaller duergar. One bolts his a duergar right in the head and drops down limp, while the next bolt hits the other one in the shoulder, injuring it severely.

We hear shouting and the clanking of metal come from the southern hallway, where Aedan and Aust are fighting the large creature. It sounds like they're in a bit of trouble, so Rotom makes quick work of the injured duergar and together we run back to aid Aust and Aedan.

As soon as we reach the hallway, we can finally see the large creature. It looks to be another firbolg, like Aedan, but larger and angrier. It seems that Aedan threw a bottle of alchemist's fire at it as well, as a green glow lights up the hallway behind it, bathing it in an eerie green glow. From behind the firbolg, we see javelins flying towards Aedan and Aust. Those must be the other duergar which Nildar commanded to go down here.

Seeing Aust is in a pretty rough shape, I try my best to bind the creature with a blood curse. As that succeeds, Aust sees an opportunity to finish the firbolg with a final blow of his axe and flee from remaining duergar.

Running up to the hallway, I see the two duergar assessing their chances and not liking what they're seeing, so they decide to flee deeper into the fortress, through the now opened stone door. Aedan and I decide to do the same trick as before. We dip our arrow and bolt in the alchemist's fire, line up our weapons and finish them off with a final shot.

We regroup and decide to check up on Santiago, who's still alone up there with Nildar. As we run north again, we see Santiago walking around the corner carrying Nildar's mighty warpick. Santiago mentioned that he suggested that Nildar take a nap, to which he agreed and settled into his bed again. Apparently, Nildar said to say hi to uncle Durth in Caer Dineval, should we go there.

Santiago asks us who would be interested in this warpick, as it's obviously to clunky and heavy for him to wield. Aust seems interested, though hesitantly, as it's made from chardalyn. We get some rest as we've all taken a beating and make plans how to deal with Nildar...