# Problems of Plenty

**25 Nightal - Shadowreach**

The battle with the [[Duergar|duergar]] had taken quite a toll on the group, severely injuring some of us. [[Aust Rime|Aust]], [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] and [[Aedan]] have taken quite a beating, while [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos, or Grok|Santiago]] and I came off rather unscathed. We decide to take a short rest here, having seemingly taken care of all the remaining duergar in the fortress.

I walk up to the cell containing the two dwarves, they're a man and woman with patchy beards, shoddy clothing and a malnourished appearance. When I ask how they got there, they answer that they were researching [[Shadowreach]] when they suddenly got snatched by the duergar. The duergar started interrogating them about what they found out about Shadowreach, also asking about [[Deep Delver's Enclave]], its defenses and any magical objects. They're not sure why they're interested in that. 

Asking if they saw anyone else around the fortress who was not duergar, they reply that they've seen a large hairy figure, similar to Aedan. That must've been Grimjaw, the enraged firbolg. Then they also mention seeing an elvish figure with obsidian skin wearing a white cloak. [[Omareth Baenre|Omareth]] was here...

Taking a look at the cell, I see it's locked with a shoddy padlock. Wanting to free the dwarves, I smash the lock from the wooden door. Aedan hands them each a goodberry, making the dwarves wonder it'll hardly be enough to satiate their hunger. As they eat it, we see the amazement in their eyes as they're immediately filled up and fed for the day. Asking if they need an escort back to Deep Delver's Enclave, they say they would be fine if we could point them the way out of this fortress.

We still have to decide how to deal with [[Nildar Sunblight|Nildar]], as we all agree that he's a threat that we can't ignore and have to eliminate. Santiago offers to check up on Nildar to see if he's already sleeping. Going over to the room and carefully opening the door, Santiago sees Nildar half awake, stirring in his bed to look who's there. Comforting Nildar and wishing him a good night, Santiago closes the door again and comes back to us.

As it's a potential risk to confront him now, we decide to wait a bit longer until Nildar's fast asleep. About half an hour later, we sneak up to Nildar's room with our weapons drawn, prepared for when things might go south. Then, we hear snoring sounds coming from behind the bedchamber's doors. Sneaking inside and gathering around Nildar's bed, we see he has returned to normal size, his armor doffed and stowed beside his bed. Looking at each other, we all lift our weapons above him, and plunge our weapons in a single, ruthless, coordinated attack to take care of him.

Having dealt with the last remaining threat, we go about exploring the rest of the fortress inch by inch. Most of the missing stuff from the manifest is found and grouped together. Going through all the various crates, barrels, chests and whatnot we managed to get a hold of some good loot.

Aside from Nildar's armor and warpick, we find:

- Santiago finds 154gp and a crumpled note with Dwarvish writing.
- Rotom finds two silver daggers.
- Aedan finds a pouch with a topaz worth 200gp, and two onyx stones worth 50gp each.
- Aust finds a crate of platinum ore worth 2300gp
- In Grimjaw's chamber, I find a silver broach of drow make, depicting a pool bathing in moonlight, worth around 350gp. This was hidden from the duergar, might've been Grimjaw's last possession.

As Santiago couldn't make sense of the Dwarvish note, he hands it to me and I translate the note aloud:

> Brother, 
> 
> Keep it coming! We're more then halfway there. Once the frozen ferry is filled, we shall descend the red waters. Long may our father reign over this dark land!
> 
> Durth

A more concerning find were crates and crates full of mined chardalyn. We're fairly certain that this chardalyn is a source of some recent troubles within the mountain, so we discuss what to do with it. Santiago wants to take it back to Deep Delver's Enclave and sell it to Bailon and the traders. Aust is fairly adamant in stating that we should get rid of it at once. Some discussion later, Santiago and Aust can't get to an agreement, at which point Aust uses the boon he received from the [[Chwinga]] to summon four large black bears and commands them to push the crates of chardalyn into a gaping hole in the floor. Seeing this, Santiago manages to take two crates before the bears get to them and wants to take them back. Reluctantly, we allow Santiago to do so and start packing up our things to leave for Deep Delver's Enclave.

Walking through the north gate into Deep Delver's Enclave, we walk straight toward the town hall to report to [[Bailon the Beardless|Bailon]]. It's quite late already, so the town's streets are fairly empty. As we walk into the town hall, we see Bailon was getting ready to finish up for the day and leave, but decided to stay and hear what we had to report. Hearing we had dealt with the duergar and retrieved most of the stolen items, Bailon wrote a writ stating that we could stay at the Lucky Lute free of charge.

Thanking Bailon for his time, we decide to head out to the Lucky Lute, when suddenly Rotom notices Bailon tugging on Santiago's sleeve. Asking what he was doing, Bailon assures us it was an accident and had nothing to share.

Finally, we head to the Lucky Lute and get some much needed rest after this long day and tough battle. In my room I decide to take a closer look the silver broach I found in Grimjaw's chamber. Inspecting the markings and depictions of the pool in moonlight, I remember this as an icon of a drow goddess, Eilistraee. Not sure what to make of it or how it ties to Grimjaw the firbolg, I decide to keep the broach instead of selling it.

Not knowing much about the armor and warpick we took from Nildar, Santiago offers to magically determine their properties for us. The armor is surprisingly light weight, which Santiago identifies as mithral half plate. We decide that Aedan might make the most use of it. The magical warpick is made of chardalyn and allows its wielder to cast a metal heating spell with it.

**26 Nightal - Shadowreach**

The next morning, we gather the loot we wanted to sell, but were surprised to see that most of the vendors were not present in their stalls and shops. Asking around we learned that they have seemingly left on an expedition into Shadowreach and would return later that day.

We hang around in town, getting some rest and making idle chit chat with the local townsfolk for the larger part of the day, until we see the vendors returning at some point. We sell the loot and divide the earnings amongst ourselves and set out to various shops. As soon as I see [[Jayce Goldsmile]] is back, I immediately head to her shop, looking for an upgrade to my gear.

Greeting her as I walk in, I see Jayce smiling back at me as she sees me enter, seemingly happy I'm back in her store again. Making idle chit chat at first, I then ask her if she has anything interesting for sale in regards to upgrading my crossbows. She mentions that she has crafted a fine lens as an upgrade for my hand crossbow, which would improve my aim and thus it's potential damage. She also has another light crossbow in stock that would warn us of any danger. The lens would cost me 500gp, the light crossbow of warning would set me back 900gp. I can't afford both, so I decide to settle for the lens. 

Suddenly, Santiago steps in, asking how much I would need for both of them. Telling him I can only afford the lens, he starts bartering with Jayce for a better price. Instead of doing the traditional negotiations, he offers Jayce a date at a fine restaurant... With me?! My jaw falls open as I look at Jayce, who's eyes have suddenly lit up hearing this offer. The price drops and drops as Santiago keeps talking into her how great the date would be, that it would be at the finest restaurant of my choosing, et cetera. Jayce is willing to settle for 800gp for both the lens upgrade and the crossbow of warning, to which Santiago suddenly chips in 400gp as well, requiring me to only spend an additional 400gp for this great set of gear.

Then Jayce turns to Santiago and thanks him for pointing out the chardalyn stash, to which I respond annoyed, asking Santiago if he did what I think he did. He beats around the bush for a while, but I start to get the idea that he told the folks around town that we ditched the chardalyn and where they could find it. When I look at Jayce, her expression betrays Santiago. He told the merchants where to find the chardalyn...

**27 Nightal - Shadowreach**

Extremely disappointed, we head back for the tavern and get some rest. The day after we meet up with a firbolg introducing himself as [[Niilrash]], seemed like a laidback character. He tells us he would take us to [[Gorom]] along a dangerous route.