## Session 14

**24 Nightal - Shadowreach**

The battle with the duergar had taken quite a toll on the group, severely injuring some of us. Aust, Rotom and Aedan have taken quite a beating, while Santiago and I came off rather unscathed. We decide to take a short rest here, having seemingly taken care of all the remaining duergar in the fortress.

I walk up to the cell containing the two dwarves, they're a man and woman with patchy beards, shoddy clothing and a malnourished appearance. When I ask how they got there, they answer that they were researching Shadowreach when they suddenly got snatched by the duergar. The duergar started interrogating them about what they found out about Shadowreach, also asking about Deep Delver's Enclave, its defenses and any magical objects. They're not sure why they're interested in that. 

Asking if they saw anyone else around the fortress who was not duergar, they reply that they've seen a large hairy figure, similar to Aedan. That must've been Grimjaw, the enraged firbolg. Then they also mention seeing an elvish figure with obsidian skin wearing a white cloak. Omareth was here...

Taking a look at the cell, I see it's locked with a shoddy padlock. Wanting to free the dwarves, I smash the lock from the wooden door. Aedan hands them each a goodberry, making the dwarves wonder it'll hardly be enough to satiate their hunger. As they eat it, we see the amazement in their eyes as they're immediately filled up and fed for the day. Asking if they need an escort back to Deep Delver's Enclave, they say they would be fine if we could point them the way out of this fortress.

We still have to decide how to deal with Nildar, as we all agree that he's a threat that we can't ignore and have to eliminate. Santiago offers to check up on Nildar to see if he's already sleeping. Going over to the room and carefully opening the door, Santiago sees Nildar half awake, stirring in his bed to look who's there. Comforting Nildar and wishing him a good night, Santiago closes the door again and comes back to us.

As it's a potential risk to confront him now, we decide to wait a bit longer until Nildar's fast asleep. About half an hour later, we sneak up to Nildar's room with our weapons drawn, prepared for when things might go south. Then, we hear snoring sounds coming from behind the bedchamber's doors. Sneaking inside and gathering around Nildar's bed, we see he has returned to normal size, his armor doffed and stowed beside his bed. Looking at each other, we all lift our weapons above him, and plunge our weapons in a single, ruthless, coordinated attack to take care of him.

Having dealt with the last remaining threat, we go about exploring the rest of the fortress inch by inch. Most of the missing stuff from the manifest is found and grouped together. Going through all the various crates, barrels, chests and whatnot we managed to get a hold of some good loot.

Aside from Nildar's armor and warpick, we find:

- Santiago finds 154gp and a crumpled note with Dwarvish writing.
- Rotom finds two silver daggers.
- Aedan finds a pouch with a topaz worth 200gp, and two onyx stones worth 50gp each.
- Aust finds a crate of platinum ore worth 2300gp
- In Grimjaw's chamber, I find a silver broach of drow make, depicting a pool bathing in moonlight, worth around 350gp. This was hidden from the duergar, might've been Grimjaw's last possession.

As Santiago couldn't make sense of the Dwarvish note, he hands it to me and I translate the note aloud:

> Brother, 
> 
> Keep it coming! we're more then halfway there. Once the frozen ferry is filled, we shall descend the red waters. Long may our father reign over this dark land!  
> 
> Durth

A more concerning find were crates and crates full of mined chardalyn. We're fairly certain that this chardalyn is a source of some recent troubles within the mountain, so we discuss what to do with it. Santiago wants to take it back to Deep Delver's Enclave and sell it to Bailon and the traders. Aust is fairly adamant in stating that we should get rid of it at once. Some discussion later, Santiago and Aust can't get to an agreement, at which point Aust uses the boon he received from the [[Chwinga]] to summon four large black bears and commands them to push the crates of chardalyn into a gaping hole in the floor. Seeing this, Santiago manages to take two crates before the bears get to them and wants to take them back. Reluctantly, we allow Santiago to do so and start packing up our things to leave for Deep Delver's Enclave.

Walking through the north gate into Deep Delver's Enclave, we walk straight toward the town hall to report to Bailon. It's quite late already, so the town's streets are fairly empty. As we walk into the town hall, we see Bailon was getting ready to finish up for the day and leave, but decided to stay and hear what we had to report. Hearing we had dealt with the duergar and retrieved most of the stolen items, Bailon wrote a writ stating that we could stat at the Lucky Lute free of charge.

Thanking Bailon for his time, we decide to head out to the Lucky Lute, when suddenly Rotom notices Bailon tugging on Santiago's sleeve. Asking what he was doing, Bailon assures us it was an accident and had nothing to share.

Finally, we head to the Lucky Lute and get some much needed rest after this long day and tough battle. In my room I decide to take a closer look the silver broach I found in Grimjaw's chamber. Inspecting the markings and depictions of the pool in moonlight, I remember this as an icon of a drow goddess, Eilistraee. 

================================

We discuss about how to deal with the chardalyn. Rime conjures four black bears that start pushing the crates of chardalyn. Santiago wants to bring some chardalyn back to [[Deep Delver's Enclave]].

We pack up and leave, walk to [[Bailon the Beardless|Bailon]] and tell what happened. Happy to hear most of the stuff is still there and ready to be picked up. Writes a writ for a stay at the Lucky Lute free of charge.

Rotom notices Bailon tugging on Santiago's sleeve as we walk out. Ask what he was doing and suggests to walk outside with us. Bailon assures us that it's an accident and had nothing to share.

We head into the Lucky Lute and get some needed rest. During the night I inspect the silver broach I found. It's a silver broach of a drow goddess, Eilistraee. good aligned, goddess of moonlight = 350gp

Santiago identifies the armor and warpick for us. The armor is mithral half plate, which Aedan takes.

We want to sell the loot we found, but most of the vendors seem to have left in town.

Later in the day, vendors come back carrying sacks of stuff. Probably the missing stuff from town. I head to [[Jayce Goldsmile|Jayce]] as soon as I see she's back, looking for an upgrade for my gear. She has a lens for my hand crossbow, and a light crossbow of warning. 500gp for the lens and 900gp for the light crossbow of warning. Santiago steps in and starts negotiating a better price for the stuff. Offering Jayce a date with me in return for a decent discount on the stuff. Jayce seems really into it and offers me all the stuff for 800gp. Santiago suddenly offers to pay up 400gp as well, so I only had chip in 400gp.

Day after we meet up at the city gate with the guide that would take us to Gorom, the oracle of the mountain. It's a firbolg, Niilrash, laidback character, that would take us to the oracle along a dangerous route.