# Session 15

**25 Nightal - Shadowreach**
 
 We reach a tunnel with the walls engraved in stars. The floor starts to crunch beneath our feet, as we look down, thick layer of white moths. Is new according to Niilrash.
 
 We continue, reach a plateau with a broken bridge. Body in the middle of the plateau, stone giant. Aust senses two undead creatures, we keep quiet. I inspect the stone giant, skull has been cracked open, brain is missing. Santiago peeks over the edge and sees a creature, tentacles from his head, teethy, undead. Describes the creature to us, but doesn't ring any bells.
 
 Aust is suddenly snatched by tentacles coming over the edge, grabbing his ankles and pulling him over the edge. We hear his scream come from just over the edge, staying there. Not falling, hanging there while the creature. I off one with two crossbow bolts, Aedan pulls up the other with grabbing Aust with a thorn whip.
 
 We fight off two vampiric mind flayers. Niilrash starts preparing pitons, ropes and crampons for the climb down in the cavern. Santiago casts a spell and throws me and himself off of the cliff, causing us to float down instead of having to climb down.
 
 As I take a look around, I see a large chunk of chardalyn having burst from the ground here as well. As everyone reaches the ground below, we hear loud stomping coming from behind us. Niilrash assures us that these might be one of the remaining stone giants, native to this place. We see two figures approaching, Niilrash walks up to them, greeting them with a wave. One of them reaches for a boulder and throws it at Niilrash, who barely dodges it.
 
 Aedan notices a mind flayer above on the other side of the bridge, shouting commands down at the stone giants. Aedan mentions that there is a mind flayer, which has me firing two shots from my light crossbow. One misses, the other one hits, after which I suddenly see a vision of Yerthid appear behind it, whispering in my thoughts "We want the same thing, we want to get rid of Omareth". I yell back that it then should stop attacking us, to which it replies that it's not done yet. Aedan also shoots his longbow at it.
 
 The rest is fending off the stone giants, who snap out of their controlled state after a couple of light hits. We start talking about what happened. They seem to have been under mind flayer control for a couple of cycles. We ask them for help fending off the mindflayer, but they're unresponsive to the request, not worried about the mindflayer being able to affect Gorom.
 
 We leave for their settlement to meet their shaman, who speaks to Gorom the most often. A female stone giant with smears of coal on her face greets us and asks us in Giant if we came to hurt them, Aedan convinces them that we're only trying to reach Gorom and speak to him. The shaman is worried that we're also infected by the mindflayer, but we assure her we aren't. She tells us why she's worried, as there are a few other stone giants in an unconscious state, having been affected by the mind flayer. Asks us how we restored the two that attacked us.
 
 She informs us about the situation with the mind flayer, that they lost a couple in a battle and some escaped. We convince her that we want to go to Gorom, she makes a potion which makes us turn to stone and then suggests that we walk through the wall towards Gorom. We thank her and start walking through the mountain, until we reach a chamber where we see the mindflayer seemingly talking to something we can't see, behind a corner.
 
 Santiago jumps out of the mountain wall and starts conversing with the mindflayer, ruining our surprise ambush. Aust, Aedan and Rotom start attacking it.