# Suffering Stone

**25 Nightal - Shadowreach**

[[Nillrash]] takes us out of town through the western gate and we head down a winding path towards the valley of [[Shadowreach]]. Eventually we reach a tunnel, its walls engraved in red stars. After a few minutes walking through the tunnel, we feel something beneath our feet. It starts crunching more and more with every step we take. Inspecting the tunnel floor, we see that we're walking on dead moths and the layer gets thicker and thicker the further we walk into the tunnel. Inquiring with Niilrash, these moths were not here before, so this is a recent development. [[Omareth Baenre|Omareth]] probably has something to do with this...

As we continue down the tunnel, eventually we reach a plateau with a broken bridge on the opposite side of us. In the middle of the plateau we spot a body lying on the floor. Running over to it, we discover it's the body of a stone giant, its skull having been split open. I notice that the brain cavity is empty, its brain is missing, nowhere to be seen. 

[[Aust Rime|Aust]] walks over to the edge of the plateau and warns us that he senses two undead creatures nearby, hiding over the edge of the plateau. [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos|Santiago]] carefully walks over to the ledge, spotting the creature and describing it to us. It's a skinny creature, teethy tentacles protruding from its head, looks quite undead. The description doesn't ring a bell with any of us, although a head with tentacles somewhat sounds like a mindflayer. Aedan and I walk over to Santiago and also spot the creature.

Suddenly we hear a scream, tentacles have snatched Aust by his ankles, pulling him over the edge. His scream doesn't seem to ebb away, which means he's probably still just below the edge. There are two creatures near us, both start moving towards us. I manage to kill one with two shots from my crossbow, while Aedan uses his thorn whip and pulls it up on the plateau. Now it's up close, I can see clearer what it looks like. It's similar to a mind flayer, but possesses this feral look to it, nothing like the intelligent creatures I've learned about during my training.

Aedan, Santiago and I fought and killed the one on our side, while Rotom was aiding Aust in fighting off the other one while trying to get a hold of some rock to climb back up. During the fight, the creature struggles to maintain its grip on the cavern wall and drops down. Aust finally manages to climb up top. Looking over the edge we can't see the creature anymore, as the drop is very, very deep.

Walking over to the creature we killed up on the plateau, I start inspecting the body. It's similar to a mind flayer, but it seems undead. The teeth protruding from its tentacles are also uncommon, nothing I've seen or learned of before. Using a knife, I start opening its head and torso to learn what this thing is. Inside of it, I find sacs filled with some kind of fluid, its stomach is filled with brain matter. These sacs are filled with spinal and cranial fluid... Now I start to recognise what hese are: [[Vampiric mind flayers]]. I've heard of the mind flayer city back down below, that's being ruled by an Elder Brain, which is something of a hive mind to all mind flayers. These creatures probably bring it the cerebrospinal fluids that they manage to harvest from their victims. It's a good thing we managed to kill these...

In the meanwhile, [[Niilrash]] has been preparing ropes and pitons for the climb down. Looking over the edge, I can just barely make out the shape of a large spike of chardalyn bursting from the ground. As we prepare to climb down, Santiago calls my name. As I turn around and look at him, this evil grin is staring back at me when he grabs me firmly by the shoulder and pushes both of us over the edge, into the abyss. Watching the ground come closer and closer, the rush of wind while we're falling gets more and more deafening. Screaming and closing my eyes for the impending impact, suddenly the rushing wind stops. Opening my eyes to see what's happening, I'm slowly floating down. Turning around, I see Santiago mischievous smile after having cast a spell causing us to gently float down to the ground like a feather.

Down on the ground, I look around to inspect our surroundings. Another large chunk of chardalyn has burst out of the ground here. As soon as everyone's climbed down the ropes, we start hearing loud stomping behind us. Niilrash assures us these are the stone giants native to this place and starts walking up to them. The pace of the stone giants quickens as one of them reaches for a large boulder and hurls it at Niilrash, who could barely dodge it. Niilrash seems very surprised at this response, who's not used to this kind of welcome of the stone giants.

We ready ourselves for another combat, when Aedan notices a mind flayer on the other side of the broken bridge above. Mentioning this to us, I grab my light crossbow and fire two shots at it, one of them hitting the mind flayer. Suddenly, my sight blurs and darkens, when I see a vision of Yerthid appear behind the mind flayer, whispering in my thoughts:

> We want the same, we want to get rid of Omareth

I snap out of it and yell back that it should stop attack us then, to which it replies that it is not done yet with what it was doing. At this time, I have no clue what it means. Done with what?

Seeing this, Aedan also fires his longbow at the mind flayer, and we both keep firing bolts and arrows at it, while the rest is fending off the stone giants. When a couple of our shots hit, the stone giants suddenly snap out of their aggressive behaviour, confused at the scene that unfolds in front of their eyes. The mind flayer flees and we start talking with the stone giants that just attacked us, who are now calm but still confused.

They mention that they can't remember much for quite a while, thinking that they've been under mind control for a few moon cycles. We ask them about the mind flayer, if they're willing to help us fend it off. They're not eager to engage with it, as they don't think it's able to affect [[Gorom]]. Would the mind flayer be after Gorom as well?

We ask if we could join them and go to their settlement to speak with their leader. They take us with them as we cross a winding path in the crevasse, up a stone staircase on the other side, reaching a cavern where we see a number of stone giants. One of them approaches us, a female stone giant, her face covered in coal smears. She's a shaman and the leader of the stone giants. 

The stone giant shaman tells us that recently they've encountered the mind flayer, lost a few stone giants in the battle. Now they're regrouping here and hiding from it. There are still a few stone giants left behind, who are unconscious after the mind flayer encounter, affected by its psychic abilities. She asks us how we restored the two stone giants that we encountered and explain we managed that by hitting the mind flayer with arrows.

Staying in their settlement and talking for a while, we eventually talk about Gorom, that we're seeking his guidance. She's reluctant at first to tell us how to reach him, but we manage to convince her and she brews a potion that allows us to travel through stone. Then she tells us how to reach Gorom, what path to take through the mountain to reach him. Thanking her, we drink the potions and set out through the stone walls towards Gorom's sanctum.

Eventually we reach a ruined chamber. There's a body of a stone giant on the floor, its skull pierced with a stone sword. We see huge skeletal remains outside of a small and dimly lit cavern. Inside the cavern, we can make out the silhouette of the mind flayer, who's seemingly talking to someone outside of our view. We slowly creep through the stone along the edges of the cavern. Then we see what the mind flayer was doing. It's standing in front of this massive face with a painful expression embedded in the rock. That must be Gorom. Seems like the mind flayer is somehow affecting Gorom, not in a good way.

Ready to ambush the mind flayer, suddenly Santiago steps out of the wall and starts conversing with it, ruining our ambush. The mind flayer tells Santiago that it wants to stop Omareth Baenre as well, albeit through somewhat unconventional methods. Not liking what we hear, Aust, Rotom and Aedan slip out of the cavern walls and make a surprise attack against it.

Using his newly obtained warpick, Aust starts casting a spell causing the metal of the mind flayer's armor to start glowing red hot, causing it to scream in pain as the armor sears into its flesh. Making use of this situation, Aedan throws a flask of alchemist's fire on top of the mind flayer, burning it even more intense.

I sneak out of the cavern wall and start shooting my crossbow at it, hiding back in the mountain when I'm done shooting.

Suddenly, the mind flayer shifts into four duplicates, scattered across the hall leading towards Gorom. They all start attacking different targets of our group.

One of the duplicates moves my way and starts attacking me as soon as I move out of the wall again.

Four rodents pop up behind us, having been summoned by the mind flayer. The rodents start shrieking at us and run towards us, attacking us with nasty bites. But as they're relatively small and flimsy, we manage to deal with them quite quickly.

During the fight, I notice that Santiago's nowhere to be seen, not helping us deal with the mind flayer. Where in the bloody hell is he?!

Meanwhile, the mind flayer has been taking quite some damage and starts to realise he's on the wrong end of this fight. It tries to flee, but succumbs after another round of shots and slashes. I finally manage to finish it off with a shots through the skull.

Inspecting the corpse, we find it was carrying a weapon. It looks like a whip of some sort, but with three tentacles instead of leather strips. Santiago immediately reaches for it, but I stop him. I wanted to know where he was during the battle with the mind flayer. He kept dodging the question, saying he was trying to help Gorom. It seemed like he was trying to dodge a bullet here and let us do the fighting. I'm going to keep an eye on him, to see if he doesn't pull this crap on us again.

Eventually we did what we came here for, pay Gorom a visit.