# Gorom's Guidance

A stone hall unfolds before my eyes with columns of precisely cut black stone. Etchings are carved into the stone, but they seem to be moving. Looking around, I see [[Aedan]] beside me. We're in this dream together. Down the hall we both spot a cloaked figure in the distance. We can't make out who or what it is yet, so Aedan and I decide to approach it. When we get closer, we see that it's [[Gorom]], now in a bodily form looking very similar to the stone giants we encountered earlier.

Gorom sees us approaching and addresses us, that this is indeed a dream and that he can better show us some things this way. He's willing to answer our questions and has brought Aedan and I together in this as our fates have converged regarding [[Omareth Baenre|Omareth]]. Aedan allows me to ask my questions first, so I go ahead and ask them of Gorom. 

The first thing I want to know, is why Omareth is here. Gorom tells me that Omareth is here because of Crenshinibon, as it's a beacon from a distant place. He wants to study it and use it to take revenge on a rival, one of the Netherese mages of Yithryn. Asking where Omareth resides, Gorom answers that he's in the Black Cathedral. Fellow wizards of the Red Star created it as a monument to Crenshinibon. Gorom also confirms to me that Omareth is not just a necromancer, but has ascended to lichdom. Knowing a thing or two about liches, I ask where its phylactery is, to which Gorom replies that the entire mountain is its phylactery. Omareth is a lot more stronger than I previously thought...

Now it's Aedan's turn to ask some questions about his bee swarm, why did they disappear and why they have turned to moths. Gorom replies that his ancients are not returning as they're trapped inside the mountain. Gorom wants to show us what the moths are and asks us to follow him. Gorom turns around and we start following him. It starts to snow, but it's not normal snow. It's snowing moths.

We walk outside and we can feel it getting colder and colder. The moth snow is now mixed with regular snow, almost indistinguishable from each other. Gorom takes a rod out of his cloak and thrusts it into the ground, forming a bubble around us, protecting us from harm and the freezing cold.

In the distance we see the three lakes of Icewind Dale, but there's no mountain. [[Kelvin's Cairn]] is nowhere to be seen. This must have been quite a while in the past. Floating above the horizon, we spot a floating city. The sky lights up as we see a glowing stripe fall from the sky, getting bigger and bigger, falling faster and faster towards the valley, until it crashes down. It carves a valley into the ground, moving massive amounts of earth and stone, forming both the locations we know as the Dwarven Valley and Kelvin's Cairn.

We see creatures coming out of the mountain, they're mind flayers. Gorom tells the crashing asteroid is how mind flayers ended up here. The asteroid is Crenshinibon. The monolith we spotted in [[Shadowreach]] was a kind of emergency beacon asking for help.

Omareth recognized the power of Crenshinibon and started working it in his favour, angering the mind flayers. That must be the reason why the mind flayer also wanted to stop Omareth. Moths started to appear because of Omareth's tampering, as they're actually souls of the dead that are trapped on this plane, lured to the mountain. Lured like moths to a flame, to feed Omareth's power. Every soul that's released by a death within a large vicinity around Kelvin's Cairn is attracted to the mountain, powering Omareth and his phylactery.

Aedan asks Gorom if there exists a power strong enough to compete with Omareth. He tells us that the floating city of [[Ythryn]] was able to float as it was powered by a Mythallar, a giant Netherese object allowing access to raw and immense amounts of magical power. Pointing out over the landscape, Gorom shows us how the impact of the asteroid and its resulting shockwave fling the city of Ythryn out of the sky, causing it to veer west, land on its side and get covered by large amounts of material from the asteroid explosion. Looking at the location where this is unfolding, Aedan guesses that the city is now part of the [[Reghed Glacer]].

There's another question I've been looking to answer for ages, about Yerthid. I've never been able to determine if Yerthid's truly dead and I've been speaking to her from some afterlife, or if her soul was just separated from her body. Asking this of Gorom, I hear the words I want to hear: Yerthid is not dead. It's actually her soul I carry in my silver locket. She can be revived by someone powerful enough to revive someone from the dead. I've heard of powerful wizards and sorceress in the region, I have got to visit them. Bringing back Yerthid is the only thing I truly want.

Gorom still wants to think us for taking care of the mind flayer that was tormenting his mind. The mind flayer was asking questions about Omareth as well, wanting to know where he was hiding. They disliked that the Crenshinibon beacon was now being used by Omareth for his power and research. Gorom tells us that he knows of more mind flayers that are coming to this region that want to deal with Omareth. We need to take care of Omareth before the mind flayers manage to reach him, potentially turning Omareth into an even more dangerous mindflayer lich.

Asking how Gorom Gorom got to be part of the mountain, he tells us about a rival tribe of frost giants. The stone and frost giants were at war with each other. As the stone giants starting to get on the losing end, they withdrew into the rock. Gorom, however, withdrew into the chardalyn instead of rock. This caused a reaction, causing Gorom to be forever part of the mountain. He doesn't seem to mind now though, he even prefers it this way is it has also brought him powers, dreams and visions he didn't have before. He has been providing guidance to his tribe and the people of Icewind Dale even since.

Aedan inquires about potential allies. Gorom tells us about a place where stone giants would meet, called [[Jarlmoot]]. There are also some tribes on the Reghed glacier that might be allies, but some might be harder to deal with than others as they are not as approachable as the stone giants in Kelvin's Cairn. Also, Gorom tells us that if we want to know something about the places west of the mountain, we might want to seek out [[Angajuk]]. Using a bell stationed on the shores west of [[Bremen]], we should be able to summon him.

Gorom then tells us it's time to go about our business again. We thank Gorom for his time and the guidance he has given us. We see the moving etchings on the stone pillars start to calm down, moving slower and slower, until our vision fades to dark. 

We wake up in Gorom's cavern again, the rest of the group standing around us. They look like crap, even worse than after the fight with the mind flayer. They tell us Aust and Rotom heard whispers coming from the brain of the mind flayer, when it started seeping out of its skull, onto the ground. Suddenly parts of the mind flayer's experiments started seeping through cracks in the walls and ceiling, heading for them both. Aust summoned an ancient Orc warrior from the skull on his shoulder, that he calls Kitty. Together with the help of [[Kingsporth]], they eventually destroyed the mind flayer brain and got rid of the monstrosities that were attacking them.

Santiago, Rime and Rotom had some rest when we got back to the stone giants. We told them what we found and that we defeated the mind flayer. Hearing the news, they guaranteed us safety while we rested up for the journey back to [[Deep Delver's Enclave]]. Around a small fire we manage to make from whatever was lying around, we start telling what we saw in our dreams.

Santiago learned about the ship he's been searching for, that it's somehow connected to the [[Arcane Brotherhood]]. The same brotherhood that [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] was part of, when she traveled with [[Vellynne Harpell]] and her old kobold pack. Of course it wouldn't be Santiago if he also didn't ask about the largest treasure to be found in Icewind Dale. That would belong to an ancient Great White Wyrm, called Arveiaturace. After all these inquiries of greed, there was something useful he learned after all. [[Auril, The Frostmaiden]] lairs in a carcass of an ancient titan, somewhere hidden in the [[Reghed Glacer]]. She wishes to be left alone for some reason.

In Rotom's dream, Gorom told her that the ruins of the floating city of [[Ythryn]] are possibly the location of the Ninth Tower that appeared in her dream.

Gorom also gave Aust some guidance in his dream, where he learned that of the elven champions of Auril, only two were still alive. One was [[Omareth Baenre]], the other one was [[Anga Keos]], who lairs on the Isle of Solstice in an ancient frost giant fortress.

We finish up our rest and start packing to leave for Deep Delver's Enclave. We thank the stone giants for our safekeeping and we are off on our way. After an untroubled journey to the dwarven enclave, we reach the town centre. There we see the blacksmiths hard at work finishing up the last bits and pieces of the mechanized suit of armour for [[Kingsporth]]. We head for [[Bailon the Beardless|Bailon]]'s office and update him on our travels and learnings. During the conversation with Bailon, we suddenly hear the town's alarm bells go off and hear people shouting and scuffling around the town.

Immediately Bailon pardons himself and rushes outside, as we decide to follow him. We see a dwarven woman shouting commands at various dwarves, telling them to close the entrances and prepare the ballistae. Asking what's going on, we're told that Deep Delver's Enclave is about to be invaded. Curious as to who's coming for this town, we peek over the palisades at the town's edge. Down below, in the valley of Shadowreach, we see hundreds of silhouettes of people bearing a glowing red star on their forehead. These are not people. These are undead...