# Session 16

Dream, stone hall, columns precision cut black stone. Etchings on the pillars are moving. Cloaked figure in the distance. Look into the face of the Gorom, stone giant.

**Omareth**
- Why is Omareth here? -> Crenshinibon, beacon
- What does he want? -> Revenge on a rival, one of the Netherese mages of Ythryn
- Where is he? -> Omareth lairs in Black Cathedral, fellow wizards of the Red Star created it. Monument to Crenshinibon
- Where is his phylactery? -> The mountain is his phylactery

Aedan asks about his bee swarm. His ancients are not returning, they are trapped in the mountain. Gorom wants to show us what the moths are, asks us to follow him. We walk after Gorom. It starts snowing. Moths. We walk outside, it gets colder, actual snow and moths are now indistinguishable. Gorom gets a rod, sticks it in the ground, forms a protective bubble.

We see the three lakes of Icewind Dale, but no mountain. Floating city in the distance. Then an asteroid comes crashing down, massive explosion. Carves a valley in the ground and stops, forming the Dwarven Valley and Kelvin's Cairn.

We see creatures coming out of the mountain. They are mindflayers. Crenshinibon has always been a beacon for the Red Star. Moths started to appear because Omareth started to work it in his favour. He needs souls for his power. They come to the mountain, like moths to a flame. Every new death within a large vicinity is attracted to the mountain and powers Omareth's phylactery.

Aedan asks about a power big enough to compete with Omareth's power. The floating city contained a Methalar, which allowed the city to float. The city is being flung away by the massive impact of the asteroid. The city veers west and lands on its side, getting covered by material from the explosion. Aedan guesses that the city is now part of the Reghed glacier.

I ask about Yerthid, her soul was not taken into the phylactery. Her soul is in my locket. She can be revived by someone powerful enough to revive someone from the dead.

Gorom thanks us for helping him taking care of the mind flayer that was tormenting him. Gorom explains that there was a rival clan of frost giants that were at war with the stone giants. Most of the stone giants withdrew into rock, Gorom withdrew into chardalyn and hasn't been able to get out since. Has been giving him dreams and visions.

Mindflayer was asking questions about Omareth as well, wanted to know where he was hiding. Disliked that the beacon was know being used by Omareth. More mindflayers are incoming to try to deal with Omareth. We need to take care of Omareth before the mindflayers start dealing with him, possibly turning Omareth into a mindflayer lich.

Aedan asks about allies. There was a place where stone giants would meet, called Jarlmoot. Reghed tribes might be allies. Some might be harder to deal with than others. If we need to know something about places to the west of the mountain, we need to seek out Angajuk. Summon him through a bell, stationary on the shores.

Dream concludes. Etchings on the pillars calm down, move slower and slower. We wake up in the den.

We go back to Deepdelver's Enclave, share stories.

Suddenly bells ring and a dwarven woman start shouting commands to prepare the defenses, closing the entrances and preparing the ballistae. Peeking over the pallisades, we see Shadowreach infested with undead, hundreds of walking corpses and flying figures. All bear a glowing red star.

We start rushing towards the north entrance of town to see how we can defend ourselves. Santiago asks the dwarves at the northern gate how to collapse the path leading to the north and west entrances. I mention this is a mining town, they might have explosives lying around. 

I run towards the mining company's building and barge through the door. The proprietor asks what my business is there and I explain the situation, that we need explosives. He's hesitant at first but I managed to convince him to give us their crates of dynamite. At that point Santiago rushes in to help. He commands two dwarves to collapse the path of the western entrance. We run to the northern entrance.

Santiago runs down the northern path with a couple of sticks and blows the path at the bottom and half-way. I use them to tie to my try to make explosive bolts. While I'm doing that, Jayce spots me and chuckles seeing what I'm trying to attempt. She asks me to follow her as she has something better. I run with her towards her shop where she hands me three metal balls, which are highly explosive she tells me. Much better than my explosive bolts.