# The Siege of Deep Delver's Enclave
Seeing the horde of undead approach [[Deep Delver's Enclave]] and the panicked rushing of the townsfolk to prepare to hasty defenses, we all decide what to do. We're not entirely sure if we should ditch this place and head for safety, but we soon realise we have no way out, but through the horde. Shortly after some discussion, we decide to help out the dwarven town as they've also been pretty good to us.

Looking around town, we see two main entrances, north and west. [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos|Santiago]], [[Aedan]] and I head to the north gate to see how we can best defend ourselves. There's a double gate accompanied by two towers to the left and right manned with a ballista crew. Seems like Santiago has an idea, as he starts asking the dwarves closing the gates if there's a way to collapse the paths leading up to the northern and western gates. The dwarves seem to ignore Santiago and keep on preparing the defenses. I mention to Santiago that this is a mining town and they're bound to have some explosives we could use for that purpose.

I run towards the mining guild's building and barge through the door. Looking at us in surprise, the proprietor asks what my business is here. I start explaining the situation, that we're bound to be invaded by an undead horde and we want to slow them by blowing up the main paths. The proprietor is a bit hesitant, but after some arguments he starts to give in and hands me some crates of dynamite. At that point, Santiago also rushes in to help carry the crates. The proprietor gives him an untrusting look and asks if he isn't the one that's overflowed the market with a huge stockpile of chardalyn. Santiago dodges the question as he commands two dwarves to go collapse the western path, and pushes a crate of dynamite into their arms. The two dwarves look at each other confused, but then they take the crate and head to the western gate. Santiago and I carry what we can towards the northern gate.

The northern gate is almost closed, as Santiago rushes towards the dwarves, asking them to keep it open for just a little longer as he needs to go out and do something. The dwarves ask if he's crazy, but Santiago wouldn't be Santiago if he didn't manage to convince them. With the gate left with a small opening, Santiago rushes all the way down the path, towards the edge of [[Shadowreach]]. I climb up the tower to inspect and help prepare the defenses. 

From the tower, I can see Santiago charging like a mad bull down the path towards Shadowreach. At the bottom of the path, he places a number of sticks of dynamite on the floor and wall and lights them. Running back up the path again, a massive boom echoes through this underground cavern as we see the path cave in leaving a decent crater. That should slow the horde down somewhat. Halfway up the path, Santiago repeats the exercise again, blowing another crater in the path.

Suddenly, a loud voice echoes through the cavern, shouting at the inhabitants of the town. Looking in that direction, I see a flying figure in a red cloak above the horde, also bearing a red star. This figure seems to lead the invading horde, it asks the townsfolk to deliver the five criminals that stole the chardalyn and the town will be left alone. There's a sudden chill running down my spine as I suspect, no, _know_ that this leads to [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos|Santiago]] telling the merchants where to find the chardalyn. The noise of the defense preparations slowly subsides as everyone stops to look up and listen to this voice. Some are starting to look in my and Santiago's direction with a look on their faces that starts to worry me. There's some discussion and pointing fingers among the townsfolk for a moment that seemed to last forever. Will these dwarves turn their back on us after all we've done for them? Will they deliver us to this herald of the undead horde? Finally, we hear some protesting voices shouting back, that they'll never turn their back on friends. And the town springs back to life, continuing the defense preparations with even more determination.

In the meanwhile, I was trying to tie some sticks of dynamite to my crossbow bolts. Unsuccessfully so. Not entirely successful at this, I suddenly hear giggling behind me. Turning around, there stands [[Jayce Goldsmile]], curiously looking over my shoulder to see what I'm doing. She laughs a bit and tells me to come with her, as she's got something much better suited for this. I run after her towards her workshop, where she cautiously gets three metal balls out of a box filled with straw, and hands them to me. I better be really careful with these, as these grenades pack a massive punch. Very much more so than my failed attempt at explosive bolts. I thank Jayce very much, as this is going to be a massive help. Then I tell her to get to safety and join the rest of the townsfolk in the mining caverns deeper in the mountain, farthest away from the horde.

Running back north through town, I see weapons being handed out all who's able to fight. Some would barely be called adults, but these dwarves are fierce and determined. In the center of town, some dwarves are cooking up massive kettles of tar that would later be hoisted on the western towers. Rotom and Santiago have met up at a place the dwarves call The Pit, a hole in the middle of town, where a frozen river drops down into the valley of [[Shadowreach]], seems like they're making plans. I quickly stop at the armory to get some supplies and enough ammunition for my crossbow, before finally positioning myself on the west-most tower at the north gate, together with the ballista crew. Over on the other tower, I see Aedan looking in my direction, I give him an acknowledging nod. Looking down into Shadowreach, I can make out the shapes of the numerous undead starting to shuffle towards town. The invasion has begun...

The horde is advancing towards the winding path leading up to the gate, but the path is narrow and their numbers are large. A cluster of zombies forms at the beginning of the path and I seize the moment to fire a shot from the ballista in the middle of this group, impaling a couple of them on one single bolt. The lesser fodder of the horde starts to fall into the first hole that Santiago blew into the path, but their numbers quickly start to fill up the hole. It's not going to be long before the hole fills up and they climb out on top of each other.

Aedan starts firing at the horde from above the other tower. He shouts in my direction that he sees a flying figure over the main group, hovering towards us. Looking down, I can also see this spherical monster floating towards us. In the middle of it, I spot a large eye, with several stalks protruding out of its head. I recognize this from my training, this is something akin to a beholder, although I cannot make out what kind it is. Acknowledging the threat it poses, I invoke the Rite of the Dawn on the ballista. The bolt that is loaded in it starts to glow red with blood runes, and I fire towards it and start firing the ballista at it. It just misses the beholder-like creature, as it glides out of the way of the bolt, allowing the bolt to pass it and impale a couple of zombies behind it.

From the other tower, I see Aedan unloading arrows from his quiver in the direction of the flying creature, causing it to rear in pain. It tumbles over a bit in the air and a bright ray shoots from one of its eyes, hitting a couple of zombies on the path, instantly incinerating them into a pile of smoking dust. In the meanwhile, the horde is still advancing on the path, having filled up the first hole already. We can see zombies climbing out of it and continuing their march towards the gate.

Trying to hit the beholder again with the ballista, I miss again. This flying target is hard to hit, nimbly dodging the incoming ballista bolts. However, Aedan does keep hitting it with his longbow, causing the flying creature to shift its attention towards that tower. Pointing one of its eyestalks at Aedan, it fires a massive blast in his chest, gravely injuring him. He drops to his knees for a moment, I can see he just barely survived that blast. Realizing he's in a bad position, he manages to cast a spell before vanishing from sight. A webbing starts to form on the beholder, shooting strands towards the ground, pulling it downwards on the path and traps it in its place just outside of the gate.

In this position, I finally manage to launch a ballista bolt into its guts, taking a big chunk out of it. These things are tough, as it's still writhing furiously in the webbing trying to break free. In its anger, an eyestalk pops out the webbing and looks towards the northern entrance, firing an incinerating ray of energy at the wooden gates. The gates blast open as a massive, smoldering hole has been blasted through the thick wooden doors, turning most of the gate to dust.

The zombie horde has almost managed to reach the second fallpit in the path now. We can now make out larger shapes walking amongst the smaller ones as well, that look quite a bit stronger and tougher that the others.

Bailon comes up behind shouting at me, asking for Aedan. Yelling back, I say that he was on the other tower. Aedan reappears near Bailon, spooking him a bit. Bailon says he's found a magic scroll that might prove very useful to him during this battle, allowing him to shoot his arrows much faster.

The beholder-like creature is still trying to break from the webbing, unsuccessfully. Now, it's also surrounded by some zombies that have managed to climb out of the second pit. The eye stalk is now looking in our direction, firing another ray of energy, now at my ballista crew. The looks on their faces instantly turns from angry determination into maddening fear, causing them to run down the stairs, leaving me behind on top of the tower. Not able to fire the ballista on my own, I reach for one of the metal balls that Jayce gave me and throw it towards the creature. It explodes in a massive fireball, taking out most of the zombies near it. As the flames and smoke clear, I can see the seared and severely wounded monster still writhing in the now burning webbing. Filled with rage and determination, I jump from the tower using the remains from the wooden gates to guide me down and run towards the beholder. Taking out my hand crossbow, I command it: "Fucking die already!" and fire a crossbow bolt straight through its main eye, splattering brain matter behind it. It let's out a screeching sigh and stops moving.

From the west we hear a really loud screech echoing through the cavern. Looking over, I can just about make out a massive shadowy silhouette of a flying dragon-like creature rising above the edge of the plateau, turning around and swoop down again.

One of the larger undead on the path, which I can now recognize as an undead ogre-like creature, picks up two smaller zombies and tries to throw them over the palisade into the town. One zombie doesn't reach it and smacks against the palisade, cracking open its skull against the wood. The other one does make it over the palisade, and starts moving towards the first living target it sees: Aedan, who's now back on the tower. Noticing this unwanted visitor, Aedan fires a couple arrows at the zombie, making quick work of it. Another longbow shot at the ogre hits it in the chest, as it lets out a grunt.

In the corner of my eye, I can see the shadowy dragon creature rise again, this time carrying something in its claws. I could barely see it, but it was carrying what looked to be Santiago?! Are they fighting the horde down in the valley? Was that their plan? It was insane enough for me to instantly believe it.

With the massive flying dragon out of my sight again, I shift my focus again back to the horde walking up the path. On the path directly below me, there's a group of zombies and the ogre walking in a steady pace. Taking out another grenade, I reach out over the path, holding it the grenade by the pin. The grenade slowly slides off the pin and tumbles down the wall into the middle of the zombie horde below me, exploding in another massive fireball. Turning my head away from the blast, I peek over the edge again as soon as the smoke has cleared. The zombies have turned to piles of smoldering limbs, but the ogre did survive this blast. It did so just barely, standing just far enough away from the blast to not be instantly obliterated. Aedan then launches another volley of longbow shots at the ogre, one in the chest and one in the head. This causes it to fall over and tumble down all the way down to the bottom of the valley again, splitting its skull open on a rock.

As the horde on the northern path has been cleared up for just a bit, I climb back up on the tower for a better defensible position. While I stand there, looking into town, I can spot a familiar figure rising from The Pit, wearing a red cloak...