# Deep Reaching Shadows

**28 Nightal - Shadowreach**

It started to seem the tides were turning in our favour, as we managed to fend off large parts of the invasion already and there was a dead [[Beholder Zombie]] in front of me.

I turned around and ran my way back into town, climbing back up the guard tower. Once I got up top and took a moment to glance back over the town, I noticed a pale figure in red robes rising from The Drop. The Mastermind of this undead invasion managed to get into the center of town! [[Aedan]] also seemed to have spotted them as he aimed his longbow towards it.

Suddenly, I spot [[Bailon the Beardless|Bailon]] running towards the north gate, his eyes glowing red. He suddenly stops and starts shouting a spell, causing the portcullis to shatter into pieces.

From the other tower, Aedan must have realised what threat this leader posed to all of us and the town, launching a volley of arrows towards the Mastermind. This seems to cause it to lose the control it had over Bailon, who's now standing confused and angry in front of the shattered gate.

The Mastermind seemed to have noticed me as a massive blast of black energy targets me, causing a massive wound and pinning me to the wall with slimy, black tentacles. I scream towards Aedan and Bailon for help in panic, forgetting for a moment that Bailon was not himself just a moment ago.

I break free from the black tentacles and run down the stairs of tower, hiding myself from this powerful mage.

 Bailon turns around and runs towards the Mastermind's location, throwing a handful of pebbles at the Mastermind. I was confused at first, but as soon as the pebbles hit the Mastermind, it seemed to have a controlling effect on them as they started to count the pebbles on the floor.

As it seemed just a bit safer, I ran out of the tower towards Bailon. Asking if he has any healing potions, he nods his head down at his belt, where I spot two healing potions. I take and drink one, easing my pain and somewhat closing my wounds.

I see another volley of arrows get launched from Aedan's tower, the arrows taking off chunks of dead flesh from the Mastermind. They're starting to look quite wounded, for something undead that is.

The Mastermind looks in Aedan's direction, points they're hand towards the tower and utters a spell. As I look back, Aedan's eyes are now glowing red. The Mastermind must have put Aedan under a spell, controlling him. The Mastermind seems to want to get out of here, having met their match. They move towards The Drop and start to fly down, descend into the deep hole.

Seeing the Mastermind wanting to flee, Bailon runs up to them and tries to swing twice at it with his axes, but sadly misses both attacks.

In a desperate attempt to try and stop the Mastermind from escaping, I run up to the edge of The Drop and invoke my blood curse of binding on it to stop it from moving. This must have also broken its ability to fly, as it starts falling down the pit. Suddenly, I spot [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] and [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos|Santiago]] at the bottom of the pit, so I shout down that they should watch out. The Mastermind crashes into the icy walls a couple of times during its fall, until eventually it drops on top of Santiago and Rotom at the bottom of the frozen waterfall, shattering into a pile of dead flesh and bones. I yell down that Rotom and Santiago should get back up here as we need them to fend off the horde.

As we had dealt with the Mastermind, I ran back towards the north tower to fend off the ever nearing horde. Reaching the top of the tower again, I look down along the winding path, seeing the horde had stopped advancing for some reason. Did we stop the horde by killing the Mastermind?

In the distance we see orange and bluish white flashes as fireballs and bolts of lightning, shattering vast amounts of undead with each blow. The dwarven entourage sped up on the way here, seemingly less troubled moving through undead masses.

At the bottom of the path, we see the stone giants appear, smashing the now stationary undead to bits with thrown boulders and stone clubs. Confused at how little resistance the mindless corpses were giving them, they reach the north entrance in no time. Inquiring what happened, we explained that the horde stopped moving when we eliminated the Mastermind. We thank them for appearing in a time of need and they go on their way.

I hear a familiar voice behind me. It's [[Vellynne Harpell]], having arrived at [[Deep Delver's Enclave]] together with [[King Baerick Battlehammar]]. She inquires about the kobold messenger that now serves a new queen who came to find [[Vellynne Harpell]], not knowing that it was sent by Rotom. I tell Vellynne that this queen is someone familiar to her, Rotom. Surprised to hear her name here, Vellynne tells me she wants to thank Rotom. Agreeing to find Rotom, I gather up Aedan and Rime and we set out towards The Drop.

As The Drop is a couple of hundred feet deep, I propose to take the long way round and meet them at the exit of the frozen waterfall. Vellynne proposes a more direct approach, directly down the frozen waterfall. Familiar with this approach, we jump into the hole as she casts a spell causing us to float down. At the bottom I spot a brightly coloured dome, as Santiago sticks his head out of this magical barrier. 

As we reach this dome, we all fall through the magical barrier, except for Vellynne. She lightly smacks against the dome, confused as to why she isn't allowed to enter. It takes some convincing and reassuring that Vellynne is here with good intentions, as Santiago finally allows her in. As he does so, Vellynne immediately drops through the barrier, and Aust makes an unfortunate attempt at catching her, causing them both to tumble over.

Vellynne addresses Rotom and thanks her for sending the kobold to come find her. Rotom still seems a bit distressed at finally facing Vellynne as she wasn't sure how Vellynne would react to Rotom's sudden departure from the kobold pack.

Finally, Vellynne addresses the entire group, says she has another job for us. As the city of Shadowreach is now impossible to research because of the remains of the horde still present there, she wants us to find a certain ship containing very valuable research documents of great importance to her. Vellynne mentions the ship is called [[The Dark Duchess]]. I see Santiago's eyes widen and causes an expression of amazement and greed. Asking Santiago if this is the ship he is actually looking for, he tries to hush me as if he does not want me to mention it to anyone.

Vellynne also asks us if we're still going to look for [[Nass Lantomir]], her colleague to the north of [[Lonelywood]]. We reassure her we will look into her whereabouts and report back to her.

We finish up our conversation and head back up to the town of Deep Delver's Enclave again, where we spot with Bailon and [[King Baerick Battlehammar|King Baerick]]. Just before we reach them, we hear King Baerick whisper to Bailon that it might be time to abandon this place. 

Seeing us arrive, Bailon thanks us all for helping save the town and introduces us to the king. The dwarven king addresses us and also thanks us for battling the undead, as well as for saving him from his maddening curse. As a way of thanks, he has instructed the smiths of [[Battlehammar Hold]] to make all of us either some mithral armour or a magical weapon, to our choosing. Thanking Bailon and King Baerick once again, we set out for Battlehammar Hold to restock on supplies and pick up our reward, before we set out to [[Ten Towns]] again.