# The Siege of Deep Delver's Enclave - part deux

I climb back up the tower to get a vantage point again, see my surroundings.

Bailon shatters the inner portcullis with a spell, his eyes glowing red.

Get hit by a massive black blast from the Mastermind, pinning me to the wall with slimy tentacles.

I shout out at Aedan and Bailon for help, manage to free myself and hide in the tower.

Aedan fires a volley of arrows at the Mastermind, causing it to lose control of Bailon.

Bailon throws a handful of pebbles at the Mastermind, casting a spell causing it to frantically count the pebbles for a moment.

I run up to Bailon, asking him if he has a healing potion. He tilts his head backwards towards his belt, where I see two flasks. I take one and drink it.

Aedan launches another volley at the Mastermind, severely wounding it.

The Mastermind casts a spell in Aedan's direction. Looking back, I can now see Aedan's eyes glowing red. It probably has control of Aedan. It also starts to go down the pit again.

I run out towards a ruin, get out my hand crossbow and start firing bolts at it. At the first hit, I notice it's lost its concentration on the spell it cast on Aedan. I keep firing, severely hurting it.

Bailon runs up to it and tries to hit it, but misses.

The Mastermind starts flying back down the drop again, fleeing the battle.

I run up to the hole and use my blood curse of binding on him, causing him to lose his flying ability and drop down the hole. The Mastermind smacks against the walls a few times, before crashing into the floor at the bottom. While its falling, I see Rotom and Santiago at the bottom, yell that something's incoming. Some flesh and bones drop right on their head. I yell that they should get their asses back up here, but the seem to ignore my call. I run back to the north gate to fend of the rest of the zombies.

After the demise of the Mastermind, the undead horde seems to calm down and stop in their tracks, mindlessly wandering about.

Dwarven entourage with [[King Baerick Battlehammar]] and [[Vellynne Harpell]] arrives, blasting undead while they're moving towards the town. Stone giants arrive in town as well.

Vellynne finds me, inquires about the kobold messenger that was sent to her by Rotom. She's looking for her to thank her. I gather Aedan and Rime, walk toward The Drop and we drop down as Vellynne casts a spell allowing us to drop slowly towards Santiago and Rotom's tiny hideout they've cast down at the bottom.

All of us drop through the bubble of the sanctuary, apart from Vellynne, who lightly smacks against the surface as Santiago and Rotom are hesitant to allow Vellynne into the hut. After some discussion, not entirely trusting Vellynne's intentions, they allow her in after she seems forthright. Vellynne offers us a job to investigate the lost city of [[Ythryn]], and a ship called The Dark Duchess. As she was researching Shadowreach, which has now been overflowed with undead, she needs to look for other places to continue her researhc. Vellyne believes the ship contains some research documents of great value to her. 

She also asks us if we are still looking for Naz, her colleague north of [[Lonelywood]]. She's willing to help and reward us if we help her out with these requests.