# Session 19

**1 Deep Winter - Battlehammar Hold**

We leave [[Battlehammar Hold]] and set out to the north of [[Lonelywood]], in search of [[Nass Lantomir]].

We find a black cabin on stilts, abandoned and in disrepair. Outhouse outside is empty, apart from some notes. Aedan takes the notes.

Aust walks up the stairs, opens first door. Empty workshop.

Walks across the the walkway, jumps across a gap, walkway gives way under his weight and he falls down.

Aust and I walk up the walkway together and carefully jump across the gap that's now there. Aust opens the door and we walk inside.

Room is wrecked, has burnt table. Also, on the floor is a burnt skeleton holding a weird device. Aust and I try to clear the rooms. 

First room contains wine barrels.

Second room contains two empty bookcases and some blueprints. One of the blueprints moves. Looking underneath, I see a white ferret. I try to lure it with some rations, but it skitters away. Aust casts a spell and starts talking with it.

Behind us, a sudden burst of light. We run back into the other room and see [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos|Santiago]] lying on the floor next to the strange device. His hands and face are charred.

We heal Santiago, said he touched device. Santiago takes up a medallion, ashes start to skitter and write "That's mine".

Look at notes, think she's mistaken about the amount of energy flowing through the chardalyn infused rock. The rings contain the energy flowing through the rock. Rings made of iron, engraved with runes. Nass tells us the device needs a third ring and that its magic should have faded by now.

Aedan asks about the orb. Contains knowledge on:

1.  The history of Netheril 
2.  Vampirism and the traits of vampires 
3.  Rituals surrounding the making, bottling, and drinking of Elverquisst 
4.  The tarrasque

We go take a rest. Aust and Aedan rest inside the cabin and get a fire started in the hearth. Rotom and I join Santiago in the more comfortable protective dome.

As Santiago takes his watch, he spots bright moving lights coming from the forest up ahead, around 200ft away. I wake up [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] and we head out to investigate. Santiago wakes Aust and Aedan and they coming running after us.

Rotom and I stop at a fallen tree, around 60ft away from the lights. At this moment we see that they're bodies covered in tattered clothing, shambling through the woods. A cold white light emanates from within. On two of them, I recognize the clothing of [[Ivahn of Daerlun|Ivahn]] and [[Gareth of Daerlun|Gareth]]. Around [[Ten Towns]] I've heard tales about these, victims of Auril sometimes turning into Cold Light Walkers.