# Black Cabin On The White Hill

**29 Nightal - Battlehammar Hold**

We were about to leave [[Battlehammar Hold]] after the undead raid on [[Deep Delver's Enclave]], having been rewarded for our aid in the battle. We talked among ourselves to decide on our next course of action. There were still some leads we had to go after around [[Lonelywood]], find [[Nass Lantomir]] and go after the [[Frozen Roses]], so we decided to head there.

There was a vendor selling giant goats in the market hall just inside of the massive stone gate. Figuring traveling through the raging blizzards would often be hard and slow, we bought ourselves some mounts. These beasts are massive and my short legs aren't really made for riding on these, but with a few adjustments to the saddle I managed to get myself seated properly and was ready to venture towards our next adventure.

Traveling down the frozen mountainside in the direction of [[Termalaine]] and [[Lonelywood]], we traveled past the border of what you could call civilisation here and traveled north beyond Lonelywood, in search of [[Nass Lantomir]]'s cabin. It took us a short while, but managed to get there in a reasonable time as [[Aust Rime|Aust]] heard about this place before.

Eventually it popped up through the snow and there we saw the cabin. It was a black cabin standing on large poles above the snow, built on the edge of a cliff. The cabin looked very old, abandoned and was in a general state of disrepair. A set of stairs led up to a walkway leading past a few doors and windows. To the south there stood an outhouse and a pile of firewood.

Aust went up the stairs to inspect the house, where he reached a door just around the corner of the wooden walkway. Opening the door, Aust find some kind of workshop which was almost empty apart from a table and a bookcase. Continuing along the wooden walkway, Aust passes a few windows and then reaches a broken piece of the walkway. 

The others were inspecting the surroundings. [[Aedan]] find a pile of notes thrown down the hole in the outhouse, showing discarded plans for some kind of mechanism. [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos, or Grok|Santiago]] and [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] scouted to the north edge of the cabin but found nothing of interest.

On the walkway, Aust tried to cross the gap in the walkway by jumping to the other side. However, the walkway gave way under his weight and collapsed, causing Aust to drop onto the snowy cliff below the house. He almost rolled over the edge of the cliff, but managed to brace himself in the snow, preventing him from falling to his demise. I ran to his help, getting him back up from the snow, and we went upstairs again together.

Carefully crossing the gap in the walkway together, we reach the front door to the cabin. Carefully opening it and peeking inside, we see the room is wrecked. There are holes in the floor, the furniture is broken and charred and the windows have shattered. In the middle of the room, there's a wreck of a table, its surface burnt heavily. Beside the table, we find a burnt skeleton holding a strange device, two metal rings surrounding a central piece of stone. Aust and I figure that we should clear the rooms to see if anyone's here.

The first room we check is a small storage room, containing some ruined wine barrels, frozen and broken, their contents long expired. The second room is a bit large, seems to have been a study of some sort. Two empty bookcases stand alongside the walls, paper is strewn across the floor, some notes and blueprints.

All of a sudden, one of the blueprints begins to move, jittering across the floor towards a corner. Kneeling down to look under the paper, I find a white ferret looking at both of us with large, frightened eyes. Tried luring it with some rations, but it hisses at me and skitters away. Aust also attempts at calming the animal by casting a spell and talking to it. After a few minutes, Aust learns that this white ferret is [[Nass Lantomir]]'s familiar. If the skeleton in the main room is Nass', how is this familiar still here?

Behind us we suddenly hear something humming louder and louder, until there is a massive flash of light and heat, as Santiago screams shortly and drops to the floor. Running out of the room, we see Santiago's singed and smoking body, the strange device lying beside him. Aust and Aedan heal him and get him back up to his feet. Santiago tells us that he picked up the device when it started to flow and erupt in this massive burst of light.

Santiago sits on the floor for a while to recover, and then spots a medallion beside him, lying next to the corpse. He picks it up and studies it for a moment, when we all suddenly see the corpse ashes write a few words on the floor: "That is mine".

We learn that the entity writing in the ashes is Nass Lantomir's spirit, still haunting this cabin as she still has something to fulfil. Nass tells us that she was working on the device and wants to complete it. I wander back into the other room, bring back the notes and blueprints we found there and spread them out on the table. Aedan starts investing the other rooms of the cabin.

The blueprints describe the device in much detail, but Nass was mistaken about the amount of energy flowing through chardalyn infused rock in the center of the device. The iron rings surrounding the rock are engraved with runes and function as an inhibitor to contain and control the device's energy. Nass tells us the device needs a third ring to properly control it. She named the device the Summer Star and is akin to a small mythallar.

Aedan then comes back, holding a small orb of dark coloured glass or obsidian. The orb is able to talk and tells us it is called [[The Professor]]. Apparently it contains knowledge on various topics:

1. The history of Netheril and how to create a mythallar
2. Vampirism and the traits of vampires 
3. Rituals surrounding the making, bottling, and drinking of Elverquisst 
4. The tarrasque

Aedan then pockets the orb in his backpack. Asking what we should do now, Aedan proposes to send Vellynne a message through one of his animal messengers, asking her to come over to the cabin and assess the situation herself.

We decide to take a rest here as its been a long day of travel and investigation, and we have to wait for Vellynne after all. Aust and Aedan camp inside, while Rotom, Santiago and I camp outside in Santiago's magical hut. Santiago decides to take the first watch, while Rotom and I try to get some sleep. After about an hour, Santiago wakes me as he says he spotted some lights coming from the forest. Looking outside, I spot the rays of light he mentioned, shining left and right through the trees about 200 feet away. I wake Rotom and say we should scout out what this light is.

Rotom and I leave the safety of Santiago's hut and set out for the woods. Santiago says he's gonna wake Aust and Aedan, while Rotom and I scout ahead. Sneaking through the woods, Rotom and I stop at a fallen tree at the edge of a clearing. There, we see the source of the light. Three shambling corpses stumbling through the forest, a bright cold light emanating from within. I've head stories about these walking creatures. They are undead beings, victims of Auril's wratch who have been brought back from the dead, stalking the icy wastes of Icewind Dale as [[Coldlight Walkers]]. On two of the corpses I notice something familiar, the clothes of [[Gareth of Daerlun|Gareth]] and [[Ivahn of Daerlun|Ivahn]].

At that moment, we hear heavy footsteps behind us as Aust and Aedan come running through the woods, when Aust suddenly bumps his heavy armor against a tree. Three beams of light suddenly point in our direction...