# 2. A Cold Welcome

**15 Nightal - Targos**

Today we will set out for [[Targos]]. The blizzard didn't calm down unfortunately, tough luck. Good thing we managed to get some tents and furs for shelter and warmth, should we need it. This weather can be unforgiving for the ill prepared.

As I expected, the blizzard got worse when we were about halfway to Targos. We managed to put in two hours of travel, before we had to put up some tents and get shelter from the blizzard. The wind feels like constants razors cutting your skin. Glad we didn't have this back home...

The weather calmed down a bit. We cleared the camp site, gathered our stuff and set out again towards Targos. We lost track of the road during the blizzard, so we had to get our bearing again. Didn't take us too long. After another hour or so, we got to Targos' gates. 

When we arrived, guards were dragging out someone towards a pillar stuck in the ground. Poor fellow was naked and bound to the pole, crying "Isabelle!" into the snowy void. We learned that Targos folk periodically made a ritualistic sacrifice to try to please [[Auril, The Frostmaiden|Auril]], the Goddess of Winter. With the emphasis on _try_... [[Auril, The Frostmaiden|Auril]] doesn't seem easily satisfied.

Rotom and Santiago stayed with the poor bugger, who we learned his name was [[Ivahn of Daerlun]]. He was the unfortunate "chosen volunteer" to be sacrificed to Auril this time. He seemed to have kind of accepted his fate, but he also didn't resist when Santiago and Rotom untied him. Aust, Marlon and me were underway to talk to the town's Speaker, [[Speaker Naerth Maxildanarr]], to learn more about this situation. Suddenly I heard shouting behind us. We turned back to check on Rotom and Santiago to find out the guards had fired their crossbows at Santiago. One guard seemed in a hurry to run towards town, I stopped him in his tracks with a blood curse. Guard didn't like that much. Shouldn't whine, there's things worse than not being able to move. Things much, _much_ worse.

We tried to talk to the guards at the town gate, but things went sour quickly and the came after us, so we fled into an alley together with Ivahn and managed to get out of sight of the guards. We kept to the alleys to hide ourselves on our way to the Luskan Arms tavern. We had heard [[Speaker Naerth Maxildanarr]] was there currently and wanted to talk to him about the sacrifices.

When we reached the tavern, we made a plan to try to hide Ivahn in a room there and find the speaker. Rotom, Santiago and Ivahn waited outside, while Marlon, Aust and me went inside to find the speaker. We tried to keep it low key, so we ordered some ales, rented a room and tried to talk to the townsfolk, see if we could find some loose-lipped drunkards.

Aust found [[Sheriff Skath]], the town sheriff, at a table there doing some paperwork. Aust learned didn't learn much as the sheriff was preoccupied with finishing his work, but did manage to find out the name of the murder that happened here in Targos: [[Coster Wolclaw]]. Coster was a ship builder in Targos' harbour. Also gave us the lead to go talk to someone from the Dock Workers Guild about it. They might have more clues on Coster's murder.

We went outside to regroup with Rotom, Santiago and Ivahn and managed to get Ivahn to the room we rented. We learned that Ivahn had a partner, [[Gareth of Daerlun]], that lived nearby. The plan was to get out of town quickly, but we could only convince him to leave Targos if we managed to bring Gareth too. We made a plan get some more information on the murders, the merchant caravan and get Gareth. Aust and Marlon went into town to try to find more information, Santiago and I went to find Gareth. Rotom stayed behind to keep Gareth safe and get some rest.

Santiago and I found Gareth's house but we heard voices when we got there. Sounded like guards interrogating him. I wanted to wait until they were gone, but before I could tell Santiago, he had already knocked and opened the door. We were met by two guards, who seemed to recognize us from a description passed around town. Tried to calm the guards down, but Santiago was ill-tempered and things went sour quickly. The guards started grappling and attacking Santiago and I had to help. In an unfortunate attempt to defend Santiago, my rapier hit the male guard in a vital spot and he dropped to the floor almost immediately. Damn. Didn't intend that to happen. Santiago then immediately attacked the female guard, also killing her in an instant. I was shocked. Couldn't believe what we did, what _I_ did. We quickly explained what happened to Gareth and ran back for the inn to meet up with the others. Santiago went inside the house again, for some strange reason.

Aust investigated the Church of Auril to see if they knew more about this Creed of Auril cult. We didn't learn much there, other than that the church and the cult are not affiliated.

When everybody was back, Marlon told us he spoke to [[Didi]] from the Dock Workers Guild. She didn't know much about Coster or the murder, but she did tell was a merchant company in town, called Torrg's, which was run by a halfling woman named [[Torrga Icevein]]. Was accompanied by some guards, one of which matched the description of [[Henrack]]. Also gave us a description of the flag of their merchant company: a black flag with a golden wolf paw. She told Marlon that they left already and we underway to Termalaine. Only way we could arrive there earlier than the merchants was to travel over the lake by boat. Marlon managed to rent two fishing boats with Didi to get us across the lake before the caravan reached Termalaine. We have to stop the caravan there, I can't risk anything bad happening to my friends there, [[Speaker Oarus|Oarus]], or worse; [[Kesni]]. We had to leave immediately.

Once we were on the boats, Santiago went pale. Real pale. Never seen an orc this pale, aside from a dead orc. He dropped face down on the bottom of the boat and started whining about him being afraid of water, apparently never sailed on a boat. Pff, pirate... Should've known better than to believe his grand stories...

Halfway across the lake, we felt something move under the boats. It started pushing and rocking the boats. It started to get dangerous. Peeked over the edge to see what it was, but couldn't see it clearly. It was big. Really big. Figured that it might be a creature that eats fish, as that's the only thing that lives in these waters. To try and distract it, I got out one of my rations as it contains mostly of trout and threw the contents into the water. Can't stomach much more trout anyway, but it's the most common food around, so it'll have to do. Anyway, the creature immediately turned around and ate the trout, but then came back to the boat! But then, instead of pushing and rocking the boat again, it surfaced. I was face to face with this enormous head, yellow eyes and a maw that could swallow me whole, lined with teeth sharp as razors... Got ready for the worst, thinking it was all over, but then... It spoke! The creature from the lake started talking! Said "thank you" in a deep guttural voice, went in the water again, and swam away. We were stunned, no one had ever seen something like this. Need to ask around town about this [[Talking lake monster|talking lake monster]]...

Now, onward to Termalaine to see if my friends are safe.