# Lifeless Luster

**30 Nightal - Black Cabin**

The three [[Coldlight Walkers]] stand before us, the lifeless luster of their cold light brightens the clearing, three ominous beams pointing in our direction. I imbue my crossbow with the Rite of the Dawn, look over the fallen tree and fire two crossbow bolts at the leftmost walker. As the bolts impact, light shoots from the holes they leave behind.

[[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] leaps over the tree and throws a couple of daggers at them, while running towards another tree for cover. A sudden burst of light shoots from their faces in our direction, but their aim is off and miss all of us. Where the beam hit the trees and rocks around us, a thick layer of ice appeared.

From way behind, we hear Santiago mutter an incantation, when suddenly a show of bright and coloured lights appear in the clearing near Rotom and the leftmost walker. Rotom is immediately caught dead in her tracks, amazed by all the sparkly shimmering around her. The walker seems to suffer the same fate, its attention now drawn towards these coloured lights.

From the woods behind me, a few arrows shoot straight at the dazed walker. The walker drops it to its knees as its light fades out, leaving behind a frostbitten shell of its former life.

The right walker shoots another massive burst of cold light straight at me, which hits me straight in the torso. I can feel my armour, skin and limbs freeze up and getting covered in a thick layer of frosty rime. Moving has gotten a bit harder, but I manage to brush it off and aim my crossbow back in its direction for another volley of crossbow bolts.

Aust rushes up to the middle walker and manages to dispatch it with a few very well placed hits of his chardalyn warpick. That walker drops face first in the snow, the light also leaving its remains.

Another burst of light comes in my direction, hitting me straight in the head this time. The light is cold and blinding, and I can feel my head painfully freeze right down to my skull. For a moment I only see white, which fades to blackness after a few seconds. I hear muffled shouting and the clattering of steel against bone, while I lay there in the snow.

Aedan comes rushing up to heal me from my frozen slumber and helps me get back up to my feet. We all walk back towards the hut to finish our rest and heal up. During the night, Santiago wakes me up as I'm apparently snoring. Telling him to fuck off and let me sleep, I turn around and wrap my still cold body in blankets.

A sudden splash of snow and cold air wakes us all up as Santiago has apparently left the hut, immediately ending the comfort of our protective dome. We hear him greeting [[Vellynne Harpell]] and see she has arrived by dog sled. Walking up to her, she greets us all and asks if there is anything to report on her missing colleague.

We guide Vellynne inside the cabin, showing and telling her what we have found. Aedan leaves out one detail though, he tells Vellynne that he doesn't know about The Professor orb when she specifically asks for it. Vellynne assesses the situation and tells us there are two options how to proceed. Either we fix the device here in the cabin, or she takes it with her to [[Battlehammar Hold]] and have the dwarven smiths finish it there. Looking at the plans, I am fairly convinced that we can handle the creation of the final components with the tools and materials we have lying round here in the cabin. We find forging and smithing tools, a furnace that's properly suited to heat metal and an anvil to work on.

Stripping various furniture of their metal fittings, we gather enough iron to start smelting and forging it. Aedan assists me during this entire process, helping me handle the red hot metal. We manage to forge a ring, although it is a bit oblong in shape. As Vellynne takes a look, she decides it will have to do and starts copying the runes from the two inner rings onto the newly forged ring. Aedan and I look over her shoulder, assisting her in carefully identifying and copying the runes.

As we attach this third ring to the device, the chardalyn infused rock in the center starts to hum and glow brightly, giving off some warmth. Instinctively, everyone takes a few steps back as it begins to do so, but the device seems stable. Moments after the device hums to life, a faint breeze of dust and ash comes off the charred remains of [[Nass Lantomir]], blowing through the cabin, past our shoulders and out of the window. Then, Vellynne gives Aedan a strangely annoyed look. As I look up to Aedan, I notice that on the wall behind us, an arrow drawn in soot is pointing towards Aedan with the word "Orb" written next to it. 

Again, Vellynne asks Aedan for the orb, now in a more commanding tone. Aedan tells her that we intended to give it to her, but there was an issue of trust. A short conversation ensued, with us agreeing to be forthright with each other now and come clean about our intentions. In the end we find that we trust each other enough to continue helping each other and Aedan hands over the orb to Vellynne, who puts it away safely.

To verify our work on the device, Vellynne casts an identifying spell on it to learn of its properties. She says the device will function, but it is suboptimal as it can only function once, before probably failing again. Vellynne suggests taking it back to [[Battlehammar Hold]] and have it fixed up properly by the dwarven smiths there. Asking what we can do with the device, we learn that it can be used to bring light and warmth to a reasonably sized area of land, around five square miles. When done so, snow melt and ground will thaw, making it suitable again for farming crops and animals. This would help greatly with the increasingly problematic situation of feeding [[Ten Towns]]. She assures us that it is exactly this outcome that she intends to reach.

As our business in the black cabin has concluded, Vellynne then asks us if we will go look for the lost research on the ship called [[The Dark Duchess]]. Asking Vellynne what kind of research she is looking for, reminder her that we promised to be forthright to each other. Apparently, there is some research on the ship by [[Iriolarthas]], a Netherese archmage. This archmage also happens to be the archenemy of [[Omareth Baenre|Omareth]]. Mages of the Red Star were no fan of the unorthodox ways of Iriolarthas and tensions rose between the two factions. An expedition led by Iriolarthas went towards [[Kelvin's Cairn]] to research Crenshinibon in the mountain, when they bumped into Red Star mages in [[Shadowreach]]. A massively cataclysmic battle, or even war, ensued between the two factions, probably causing the destruction of Shadowreach.

All of us start packing up our things again on our mountain goats, as we prepare to leave for [[The Dark Duchess]]. We say goodbye to [[Vellynne Harpell]], who sets off towards [[Battlehammar Hold]] again.

As we are close by the Lonelywood forest, we start asking ourselves if we should still investigate [[Frozen Roses]]. We all agree to go there as a slight detour and set out south, towards the forest. Aust and Aedan lead us through the snowy tundra and the forest, until we reach a low cliff. Down in the valley of the forest, we spot a slightly burning brazier in the distance, dimly lighting two massive tusks of a fossilised mammoth skull.

Santiago immediately sets out towards th

==========================



We spot a slightly burning brazier, about to go out. Entrance is inside the mammoth skull, possibly fossilised bone. I hear music faintly. Rotom's taps my shoulder, she found a secret entrance covered by foliage. We wait a bit to see if someone comes to light the fire but no one comes in about an hour. Rotom and I head back.