# Session 20

Thee Coldlight Walkers in front of us at the end of a clearing in the woods. 

Imbuing my light crossbow with my rite of the dawn, I fire two crossbow bolts at the leftmost walker. Light shoots from the holes left by the bolts.

Rotom runs up and throws a couple of daggers.

Walkers come walking towards us and fire beams of cold light straight at us but miss all of us.

Santiago hypnotic lights one left one and Rotom.

Aedan kills the left one with arrows.

Right one fires a ray of light at me, and hits me this time. 

Aust kills the middle one.

Right one fires a ray of light at me, and hits me this time, taking me out.

Aust and Aedan kill the right one.

Aedan heals me, waking me up. Walk back to Santiago's hut where it's warm. We finish the sleep and heal up. Santiago wakes me up as I'm apparently snoring but I tell him to fuck off and continue sleeping.

Santiago leaves the hut suddenly causing it to disappear. We all wake up and see someone approach on a dog sled. It's Vellynne Harpell.

We walk inside house and show what happened to Nass. Aedan tells what we found, explicitly doesn't mention the professor orb. Vellynne is looking for the orb as it contains knowledge on Netheril which she needs to continue her research.

We fix the orb, Aedan and I smelt iron and forge the ring, albeit a bit oblong. Vellynne inscribes the runes on the ring. Attaching the third ring to the device, it starts to glow brightly and give off some warmth. A faint breeze blows past our shoulder as the device is completed as we believe it is the spirit of Nass passing to the afterlife. Vellynne looks strangely at Aedan as an arrow drawn in soot on the wall is now pointing at Aedan. She then asks Aedan for the orb. Aedan hands it to her, saying that he wanted to give it back to her, but there was an issue of trust. We all agree to be forthright with each other now and come clean about our intentions.

Taking a look at the device, Vellynne casts an identifying spell on it to learn its properties. The ring we forged seems to be suboptimal as it

I ask Vellynne on the research she wants to retrieve from ship called The Dark Duchess. Iriolarthas, Netherese archmage, arch enemy of [[Omareth Baenre|Omareth]]. Red Star mages were no fans of Iriolarthas. Netheril mages led by Iriolarthas went on an expedition to research Crenshinibon in the mountain, when they bumped into Red Star mages in Shadowreach, causing a massive battle/war between the two factions.

We spot a slight burning brazier, about to go out. Entrance is inside the mammoth skull, possibly fossilized bone. I hear music faintly. Rotom's taps my shoulder, she found a secret entrance covered by foliage. We wait a bit to see if someone comes to light the fire but no one comes in about an hour. Rotom and I head back.