# A Rose By Any Other Name

**30 Nightal - Frozen Roses hideout**

As we spot the figure lighting the brazier, a druidic woman, we immediately decide to sneak back down to the entrance again and go for an ambush. Casting spells and firing arrows, we come charging out of the forest. [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos|Santiago]] manages to hold her in place, and [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] this her feet while nibbling on her calves, stating that she shouldn't move.

In response, the druid taunts us by saying: "I can't move, but they can", as she casts a spell summoning to massive elk behind us. We attack the woman again, who seems to lose her ability to maintain the spell, and the two elk disappear again.

Still bound by her feet, we start interrogating her. We learn that her name is [[Shalheira]] and that she is one of four leaders of the [[Frozen Roses]]. When we mention that we are here because of a reward out for [[Adelia]], dead or alive, she says she isn't entirely on agreeable terms with the current leadership herself. There are two other leaders, [[Adelia]] and [[Blink]], who rule over the Frozen Roses with a taste for revenge on [[Ten Towns]]. 

Apparently, all members of the Frozen Roses are widows from Ten Towns, who have lost their partners to the sacrifices to [[Auril, The Frostmaiden|Auril]]. Embittered, they flocked together and formed a hidden community in this forest, naming themselves the Frozen Roses. Having hardly any resources here to provide for themselves, they steal their food and supplies from Ten Towns. [[Shalheira]] assures us that they don't hurt or kill people in the process, only their own when they betray the location of their hideout, as is what happened with [[Torrga Icevein|Torrga]] in the [[Termalaine]] prison.

Shalheira again urges us to help her and wants to make a deal with us if we do. If we manage to get rid of [[Adelia]] and [[Blink]], she promises to govern the Frozen Roses into a more peaceful relationship with Ten Towns, stopping the various raids for supplies. Shalheira says she will lure out the two into the forest, where we can ambush them.

Positioning ourselves in a small clearing in the forest, Santiago casts a dome in which we hide, covering it with snow. I position myself outside the dome, near some large rocks and a fallen tree, staying hidden until Shalheira arrives with the leadership.

After a short while, we hear footsteps in the snow and I peek over the fallen tree. Four figures approach us: Shalheira, Adelia, Blink and a giant sabretooth. Will she keep to her promise? Or will she betray us? Only one way to find out.

Aust then suddenly bursts out of the dome, towards Adelia and Blink, hacking away with his warpick. I suppose that's the queue for the ambush, and everyone starts attacking from within the dome. I try to get closer from my hidden position and hide behind a tree, from where I fire a few crossbow bolts towards [[Adelia]]. She throws two of her axes towards me, one landing next to my feet, the other one getting stuck in the tree. I pick up and throw one axe inside the bubble, out of her reach, and make a run for the bubble myself, while shooting more crossbow bolts at her again.

Aust, Rotom and Aedan keep attacking Blink and the sabretooth, while Shalheira starts casting spells at both Adelia and Blink. The looks on their faces suddenly change from anger into rage as they notice th

=================================

We ambush woman outside the mammoth skull. Rotom ties her feet and starts nibbling her calves, stating she should not move. In response, she summons two elk. As we attack the woman, the two elk disappear again as she can't maintain the spell.

The woman gets interrogated by us, she's called [[Shalheira]], apparently one of four leaders of the [[Frozen Roses]]. She isn't on agreeable terms with current leadership, wants our help to overthrow [[Adelia]] and her right hand, [[Blink]].

Most of the Frozen Roses are women from around [[Ten Towns]], widows of sacrificed men in the villages. Eventually we learn they aren't really the gang of bandits like we thought they were. They just want to live their lives away from Ten Towns, from the people that murdered their husband out of zealous worship and fear of [[Auril, The Frostmaiden|Auril]]. Shalheira says they have just been stealing from Ten Towns to just provide for their own, get food and supplies. No one other than their own have been killed, like [[Torrga Icevein|Torrga]] in the Termalaine prison.

We make a deal with her where she lures out the two leaders she wants to get rid of, while we ambush them in the woods.

Battling the two leaders and their sabretooth, we manage to take them down.

[[Shalheira]] takes us into the lair and rewards us with loot:

- 500gp
- 1 piece of Aquamarine (500gp)
- Large well-made tapestry depicting the settling of Ten Towns (250gp)
- Carved Ivory Statuette of an Axebeak from Chult (200gp)
- Golden ring with blood stones (450gp)
- Pair of engraved bone dice (25gp)
- 6 antique ivory buttons worth 20gp
- Hunter's coat
- Horn of blasting