# Session 21

We ambush woman outside the mammoth skull. Rotom ties her feet and starts nibbling her calves, stating she should not move. In response, she summons two elk. As we attack the woman, the two elk disappear again as she can't maintain the spell.

The woman gets interrogated by us, she's called [[Shalheira]], apparently one of four leaders of the [[Frozen Roses]]. She isn't on agreeable terms with current leadership, wants our help to overthrow [[Adelia]] and her right hand, [[Blink]].

Most of the Frozen Roses are women from around [[Ten Towns]], widows of sacrificed men in the villages. Eventually we learn they aren't really the gang of bandits like we thought they were. They just want to live their lives away from Ten Towns, from the people that murdered their husband out of zealous worship and fear of [[Auril, The Frostmaiden|Auril]]. Shalheira says they have just been stealing from Ten Towns to just provide for their own, get food and supplies. No one other than their own have been killed, like [[Torrga Icevein|Torrga]] in the Termalaine prison.

We make a deal with her where she lures out the two leaders she wants to get rid of, while we ambush them in the woods.

Battling the two leaders and their sabretooth, we manage to take them down.

[[Shalheira]] takes us into the lair and rewards us with loot:

- 500gp
- 1 piece of Aquamarine (500gp)
- Large well-made tapestry depicting the settling of Ten Towns (250gp)
- Carved Ivory Statuette of an Axebeak from Chult (200gp)
- Golden ring with blood stones (450gp)
- Pair of engraved bone dice (25gp)
- 6 antique ivory buttons worth 20gp
- Hunter's coat
- Horn of blasting