# A Frozen Rose By Any Other Name...

**30 Nightal - Frozen Roses hideout**

As we spot the figure lighting the brazier, a druidic woman, we immediately decide to sneak back down to the entrance again and go for an ambush. Casting spells and firing arrows, we come charging out of the forest. [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos|Santiago]] manages to hold her in place, and [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] this her feet while nibbling on her calves, stating that she shouldn't move.

In response, the druid taunts us by saying: "I can't move, but they can", as she casts a spell summoning to massive elk behind us. We attack the woman again, who seems to lose her ability to maintain the spell, and the two elk disappear again.

Still bound by her feet, we start interrogating her. We learn that her name is [[Shalheira]] and that she is one of four leaders of the [[Frozen Roses]]. When we mention that we are here because of a reward out for [[Adelia]], dead or alive, she says she isn't entirely on agreeable terms with the current leadership herself. There are two other leaders, [[Adelia]] and [[Blink]], who rule over the Frozen Roses with a taste for revenge on [[Ten Towns]]. While this interrogation is happening, [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] snags an ivory horn from Shalheira's belt and attaches it to her crown.

Apparently, all members of the Frozen Roses are widows from Ten Towns, who have lost their partners to the sacrifices to [[Auril, The Frostmaiden|Auril]]. Embittered, they flocked together and formed a hidden community in this forest, naming themselves the Frozen Roses. Having hardly any resources here to provide for themselves, they steal their food and supplies from Ten Towns. [[Shalheira]] assures us that they don't hurt or kill people in the process, only their own when they betray the location of their hideout, as is what happened with [[Torrga Icevein|Torrga]] in the [[Termalaine]] prison.

Adelia tends to be a bit different, as she is not from around [[Ten Towns]], but from up north coming from a barbarian tribe living on the [[Reghed Glacier]]. She was in love there with another woman, but the chieftain there wed her beloved to his son, forever taking the love of her life away from her. Adelia then ran away where she met the group of Ten Towns widows and became her leader. Ruling the [[Frozen Roses]] with an iron fist, some are scared or angry with Adelia, slowly losing her grip on the group.

Shalheira again urges us to help her and wants to make a deal with us if we do. If we manage to get rid of [[Adelia]] and [[Blink]], she promises to govern the Frozen Roses into a more peaceful relationship with Ten Towns, stopping the various raids for supplies. Shalheira says she will lure out the two into the forest, where we can ambush them.

Positioning ourselves in a small clearing in the forest, Santiago casts a dome in which we hide, covering it with snow. I position myself outside the dome, near some large rocks and a fallen tree, staying hidden until Shalheira arrives with the leadership.

After a short while, we hear footsteps in the snow and I peek over the fallen tree. Four figures approach us: Shalheira, Adelia, Blink and a giant sabretooth. Will she keep to her promise? Or will she betray us? Only one way to find out.

Aust then suddenly bursts out of the dome, towards Adelia and Blink, hacking away with his warpick. I suppose that's the queue for the ambush, and everyone starts attacking from within the dome. I try to get closer from my hidden position and hide behind a tree, from where I fire a few crossbow bolts towards [[Adelia]]. She throws two of her axes towards me, one landing next to my feet, the other one getting stuck in the tree. I pick up and throw one axe inside the bubble, out of her reach, and make a run for the bubble myself, while shooting more crossbow bolts at her again.

Aust, Rotom and Aedan keep attacking Blink and the sabretooth, while Shalheira starts casting spells at both Adelia and Blink. The looks on their faces suddenly change from anger into rage as they notice that they are being betrayed by one of their own. Adelia and Blink rush towards Shalheira, screaming angrily at her while swinging their weapons.

Following a short command from Adelia, the sabretooth starts burrowing through the snow towards the dome, bursting up from the floor inside and attacking Santiago and Rotom. Luckily, Rotom and Santiago make short work of the sabretooth, as Aust, Aedan and I support Shalheira fighting off Adelia and Blink.

A few more slashes from Aust's warpick manage to take down Blink, leaving Adelia facing us alone, enraged by hatred, betrayal and the sight of the loss of her sabretooth pet. In a final act of desperation, she charges at us with all her might, but she is no match for us, being massively outnumbered. Adelia drops on the snowy forest floor, red streaks and pools of blood contrasting the white snow.

We take a moment to catch our breath, but Shalheira wastes no times and cuts off Adelia's head, carrying it by her hair. She invites us to join her inside their hideout, as she wants to show the others what we did. We hesitate at first if we should come in, but she manages to convince us with the promise of a reward.

Climbing up the mammoth skull, we enter the hideout through the eye sockets. Inside it looks like a tavern with a bar, stool and tables. We hear the murmuring of many voices, some laughing, some singing. As Shalheira enters the inner tavern, people start to look at her as she enters with her bloodied tunic, their eyes widening even further when she throws the severed heads of [[Adelia]] and [[Blink]] on the floor...