# ... Still Feels As Cold

A screaming and shouting match ensues as the women of the [[Frozen Roses]] look in disgust at the two severed heads on the floor and [[Shalheira]]'s bloodied tunic. Shalheira addresses them in a speech, speaking with a loud and strong voice as their new leader. Telling the crowd that this was the best outcome for them, as we initially set out to permanently deal with the Frozen Roses. The mood of the crowd calms as she promises them that she made a deal with us and that we won't sell them out.

[[Aust Rime|Aust]] and [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] join in on the speech, telling them all that we know of the sacrificial lotteries. When we mention that the lotteries are rigged, eyes widen and gasps of shock are heard among the women. The story of us saving [[Ivahn of Daerlun|Ivahn]] and [[Gareth of Daerlun|Gareth]], only leading to them still being killed, causes some angry looks of betrayal on the women's faces.

When Shalheira mentions that they want to establish better relations with Ten Towns to ensure a better future for them, it seems that most of them are now convinced that Adelia had to be taken out. More and more voices rise up in agreement, until eventually the women are cheering, toasting and chanting.

The mood eventually calms down a bit and the chatter, singing and laughing resumes as before. Aedan finds someone familiar, Tinna Rielsbarrow, a woman from [[Good Mead]] he knows as the sister of the speaker there. Tinna tells Aedan that that Good Mead is doing fine, but that she's worried about [[Dougan's Hole]]. The speaker there requires townsfolk to leave their door open to sacrifice the heat. Anyone who freezes to death is their sacrifice to [[Auril, The Frostmaiden|Auril]] for the time being.

Aedan also asks Tinna about the claw he found earlier. Tinna mentions that it is from a ghoul [[Shalheira]] sometimes summons to guard the hideout. It would have a chilling effect when it scratched someone. Shalheira would sometimes use ghouls as guards until she could find no use for them, letting the spell wear off, causing the ghouls to start wandering around.

Shalheira takes us further into their hideout where she rewards us with gold and treasure:

- 500 gold pieces
- 1 piece of Aquamarine, worth 500gp
- Large well-made tapestry depicting the settling of Ten Towns, worth 250gp
- Carved Ivory Statuette of an [[Axe beak]] from Chult, worth 200gp
- Golden ring with blood stones, worth 450gp
- Pair of engraved bone dice, worth 25gp
- 6 antique ivory buttons worth, worth 20gp
- A hunter's coat

From the corner of her eye, Shalheira then notices the horn attached to Rotom's crown, and asks it back. Of course Rotom wouldn't just do away with it, and in a sad voice tells Shalheira that she found it and wants to keep it, putting up the largest puppy eyes I've ever seen her do. Shalheira gives in and allows Rotom to keep it.

We ask Shalheira about the [[Creed of Auril]]. It is being led by druidic cult who believes Auril is acting out causing the endless winter. Their belief is that we need to show her more devotion and cruelty to keep her satisfied. We mention that we have met one of them, [[Ravisin]], and Shalheira mentions that Ravisin has also approached her to join her cause. Shalheira declined the offer, having no interest in their evil practices. 

The leadership of the Creed of Auril meet in a Frost Giant cave near the Sea of Moving Ice, called Grimskalle. Shalheira has only heard this info, she has never been before. There have been people who are able to commune with Auril, who tell a similar story. The Creed of Auril mainly consists of the awakened animals that they use for defense and spying, of which they apparently have a lot. As for the actual members of the cult, there are five frost druids and an ancient priestess as their leader, [[Anga Keos]].

Asking how the Frozen Roses will continue their existence, she asks us if we could provide them with any help. I mention being a friend with Oarus and that I can write a letter vouching for Shalheira and the Frozen Roses. To make sure Oarus would recognise the letter actually came from me, I mention a couple of personal things in the letter, like telling [[Kesni]] she will see me again soon.

As the day was ending, we thought it would be best to stay here for the night and take a couple of drinks in the tavern. Some sleep inside the hideout, while others sleep in the familiar comfort of Santiago's hut.

**1 Hammer - Frozen Roses hideout**

The next morning we regroup outside and set off towards the west on our goat mounts, in search of [[The Dark Duchess]] to look for the research [[Vellynne Harpell|Vellynne]] is eagerly looking to get her hands on. We travel through the Lonelywood forest, heading west and crossing the river leading to Maer Dualdon, following its northern bank.

A few hours into our travel, we are quite a ways beyond the borders of [[Ten Towns]]. The landscape has turned from a wooded hilly terrain into a barren and frozen tundra, the icy wind blasting in our faces. Aust and Aedan lead the group, when their goats suddenly stumble over a pile of frozen heads sticking from the ground. We get off our goats for a moment to inspect, noticing that some of the heads have scratch marks. 

Aedan recognises what this is: a yeti hoard. Yetis tend to rip the heads off of their prey and store them somewhere as their treasure. When we hear this, we immediately look around if we spot any yetis in the vicinity, but all we found are three tracks leading away. Seems to be a yeti family, as the tracks have left two larger an one smaller pair of feet imprints in the snow.

I ask what we should do about these yetis, proposing that we find and kill them as these are dangerous monsters stalking the people of Ten Towns. The rest seems to disagree as they think they're too dangerous to handle. Slightly disappointed I get back onto my goat mount and we continue our journey west.

As the sky is starting to display a range of wavy bright colours, it appears the evening is setting in. Santiago finds a good spot to set up the magical hut again. We tie our goats to a nearby dead tree trunk and head inside the dome for a night's rest.

At the start of the night, Aust and I take a first watch. The snow starts to come down pretty heavy, covering the shelter quickly with a quick layer of snow, making it hard for us to see outside. During our watch, we hear soft sounds of snow crunching, then some sniffing near my head, just outside the dome. I can't see what's making these noises, as the dome has been fully covered by snow now. Carefully clearing some snow away from the inside, I spot two silver foxes, curiously investigating our hut.

**2 Hammer - Tundra northwest of Ten Towns**

Suddenly, the two foxes start speaking in Common! They mention not having seen this mound here before, wondering what it might be. When they start digging, we can hear their nails scratching the outside of the dome. I wake [[Aedan]], asking if we should do something with these foxes, but he thinks they're best left alone. 

At this point, Rotom wakes up from the muttering inside the hut, asking what's going on. Telling her that I spotted two silver foxes outside, her eyes light up as she says she's always wanted a pet fox! In a loud voice, she says "Hello!" from within the dome, causing the two foxes to jump up in a fright scare and skitter off. Looking outside again, we can't spot the foxes anymore and they're not seen or heard again for the rest of the night. Aust leaves some rations outside to see if they can be lured back, but when we wake up the next morning the food it still there.

Mounting our goats, we start heading out west again through the frozen tundra, which is covered in a thick layer of snow now. After a good day's travel, we can spot the terrain turn darker further out, which we know would be the Sea of Moving Ice. Noticing the pattern of bright lights appear in the sky again, we set up shelter again for another night's rest.

As pretty much every night, Aust takes up first watch again. After a few hours, he spots large figures slowly moving across the horizon. A herd of mammoths from the looks of it. The sounding of a horn wakes us all up, and Aust notices the herd changing course in our direction, running towards us in a stampede. While we see the mammoths approach us, we notice they are being hunted by a pack of orcs. They must be from a tribe in the neighbourhood. 

We exit the shelter as we see the mammoths getting closer and closer, us wanting to get out of their way. A bear and bull mammoth are leading their pack away from the orcs. A bit to the left of the mammoths, we can spot the orc hunting party in the distance. Aedan casts Faerie Fire to light us up in an attempt to scare the mammoths away from us. The bear mammoth runs over a thinner part of the ice, which isn't able to support her weight, causing her leg to get stuck in the ice. Santiago then casts Hypnotising Pattern on the group of mammoths, managing to put the bear mammoth in a stupor as she's intrigued by these lights.

On the other side of the mammoth herd, the orc hunters have started targeting a smaller mammoth. Seeing that the bear mammoth is now also stuck in the ice and hypnotised, they divide their focus between the smaller and bear mammoth, aided by Rotom and Santiago. The bull the notices that his mate and child is in danger, it turns around to try and defend them, but fails to fend the orcs off. The bear mammoth manages to break free from both her trance and the hole in the ice, running off with her mate towards the rest of the pack, leaving their now heavily wounded child behind. The orc chief who's leading the hunting party, walks up to the mammoth child and ends its suffering with a massive orc sword.

We meet with the orc hunting party, who say they're happy to manage to have killed the smaller mammoth. Santiago and Rotom convince the orc chief to take us with them to their encampment and feat with them on the successful mammoth hunt.