# Session 22

Shalheira takes us inside the Frozen Roses hideout, through the mammoth skull. She throws the two heads of [[Adelia]] and [[Blink]] into the room and screaming erupts from the women inside. Shalheira holds a speech that this was the best outcome they could've gotten, as we initially set our thoughts to getting rid of the [[Frozen Roses]]. The mood of the crowd calms down as Shalheira reassures them that we wont sell them out.

Aust and Rotom tell the crowd about the lotteries, that they're rigged, about Ivahn and Gareth that we saved, but eventually got killed.

Aedan finds [[Tinna Rielsbarrow]], a woman from [[Good Mead]] he knows as the sister of the speaker there. Tinna tells Aeden that that Good Mead is doing fine, but that she's worried about [[Dougan's Hole]]. Speakers there requires townsfolk to leave their door open to sacrifice the heat. Anyone who freezes to death is their sacrifice to Auril for the time being.

Aedan also asks about the claw he found, Tinna mentions that it is from a ghoul Shalheira sometimes summons. It would have a chilling effect. Shalheira would use the ghoul as guards.

We ask Shalheira about the [[Creed of Auril]]. Led by druids who believes Auril is acting out and need to show her more devotion and cruelty to keep her satisfied. Leadership of the Creed meet in a Frost Giant cave near the Sea of Moving Ice, called Grimskalle. Shalheira has only heard this info. She's seen people commune with Auril, telling a similar story.

Main numbers are the awakened animals that they use for defense, of which they have a lot. They have five frost druids and an ancient priestess, [[Anga Keos]].

I write a letter to [[Speaker Oarus|Oarus]] mentioning that the situation with the [[Frozen Roses]], Adelia's dealt with, that Shalheira wishes to negotiate a deal and stop being persecuted, ending the ransom on their heads. The letter is written it in such a way that it would come over as trustworthy enough.

We take a long rest, some of us sleep inside the tavern inside the hideout, other sleep in Santiago's hut outside.

Thanking Shalheira for the shelter for the night, we set off towards the [[The Dark Duchess]], the ship that [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos|Santiago]] and [[Vellynne Harpell]] are looking for.

We travel through the Lonelywood forest, leading west and crossing the river leading to Maer Dualdon.

We almost trip over three frozen heads in the ground, some of them have scratch marks. Aedan thinks it's a yeti hoard. We don't see the yeti immediately, but we spot tracks in the snow.  We move away, deciding not to find and engage the yeti's.

The sky turns bright colours as it apparently turns to night. Santiago puts up the sleeping dome again. Aust and I take watch. It starts snowing pretty heavily, covering the dome in snow. Early in the night during my watch, i hear sniffing outside the dome. Carefully clearing some snow, I spot two silver foxes. Suddenly, they're talking in Common! They mention that they've not encountered this hillock before, wondering about it. They start digging and scratch the outside of the dome. I wake Aeden, asking if we should do something with these foxes. At this time, Rotom wakes up and asks what's going on. I tell about the silver foxes. Rotom wants to befriend them and says "hello" through the snow. The silver foxes jump up in a sacer and run off. We don;t see them again. Aust leaves some food outside, but that's still there but the morning. 

We set out west again through the tundra. Eventually we see the terrain turn darker further out, which would be the Sea of Moving Ice. We camp out in the dome again. During Rime's watch, he spots large figures moving in the distance. Mammoths from the looks of it. A sudden sounding of a horn causes the group of mammoths to stampede in our direction. As they do, we see they're being hunted by a group of people in the distance.

A mammoth bull and bear are leading a pack of smaller mammoths out of the way of a group of orc hunters. First, we run out of the way. Aedan casts faerie fire to light us up to try and scare the mammoths away from us. Apparently it works, as the pack moves out of our direction. Bear mammoth gets stuck in ice. Santiago casts hypnotic pattern on the bear mammoth, mesmerising it. The group 