# A Duchess on Ice
**3 Hammer - Orc encampment**

Following the orcs back to their encampment, we eventually reach a small orcish village made up of tents and yurts. Poles and stakes decorated with goblin heads are put up outside and around the camp.

A large fire is lit in the middle of the camp, while some orcs butcher the hunted mammoth for a feast. There is music, drinking and dancing, but not in a way we're used to in [[Ten Towns]].

Asking about the goblin heads, the orcs tell us that they found goblins to the north and south of here. There were some goblins near a bronze bell, which was hung from a weird altar. Apparently the goblins ran off with the bell.

To the south, the orcs found a fortified goblin fortress. They have managed to intercept some goblin patrols and caravans, capturing them and their supplies. Pointing to a wagon in the camp, the orcs tell us that it's filled to the brim with dwarven metal. Curious as to what kind of metal, I ask if I could see the wagon. I can see the orcs don't fully trust us, telling us we can't see it. One of them does get up and walks over to the cart, bringing me a single bar of metal. Inspecting it, I'm relieved to see it isn't chardalyn, as it is actually an iron ingot stamped with a dwarven mark of two mugs of ale clanking together.

The orcs hear us talking about the ship and tell us they've seen it too. It's some ways to the north of the camp. The ship is frequented by a lot of seals who want to get out of the wind and take shelter in or near the wreckage. They have been getting some good game from there during their hunts.

Feasting our way into the night with the orcs, enjoying a good drink and some freshly cooked mammoth meat, we eventually settle for the night to rest up for the remainder of the journey towards [[The Dark Duchess]]. We leave early in the morning, our heads still somewhat heavy from the evening before. The journey north goes rather uneventful, and we finally see the silhouette of the ship pop up through the veil of the falling snow.

We reach the ship in the early afternoon, seeing that it's covered in frost, its wood creaking and moaning in the strong winds. It lies a bit sideways in the ice, the deck rising to its starboard side. A thumping noise emanates from within the hull of the ship, followed by a guttural growl. Tracks can be seen around the ship, most of them from seals and walruses, but I also spot imprints in the snow that look humanoid but have four toes, seemingly undead. I imbue my crossbow when I notice this, and notify the others. 

[[Santiago Cruz de los Santos, or Grok|Santiago]] takes [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] on his shoulders, lifting her up so she can see on deck. Nothing worth noting is to be seen yet. They then start scouting the outer perimeter of the ship, walking northwards around the ship. Meanwhile, [[Aedan]] lifts [[Kingsporth]] on deck and he tells us what he sees. The deck is wrecked and large scratches mark the wood. Knobsworth helps us climb up on deck as well. On deck, we can see this ship used to be a medium sized three-master, its masts now wrecked and broken in the winds. A massive hole has been torn through the upper deck into the hold of the ship.

Looking into the hold, I notice a glimmer coming from below. Taking a better look, I can see metallic objects, gold and jewelry encased in a massive icy wall. I drop prone to better see inside the hold. Then I notice the creature that has been making the thumping and growling noises: an [[Ice Troll]] eating a freshly caught seal, tearing its flesh straight from the carcass. It doesn't seem to notice me yet and goes about eating the seal undisturbed. I mention to the others on deck that there's a troll, Aust and Aedan reply that we should kill it with fire, otherwise it would keep regenerating.

Meanwhile, we see Santiago standing in a corridor in the fore castle of the ship. Aust whispers to him that there's a troll, Santiago whispers back there's a befriended ghost of the ship's navigator and Rotom is discussing a map with it. What is this ship? There's a treasure hoard, a troll, now ghosts?!

Aedan takes up position near the stairs down to the hold and Kingsporth follows suit. When Kingsporth walks over the deck, I notice that the clanking of Kingsporth's suit notifies the ice troll of our presence. Immediately it drops the seal it was eating and scans its surroundings, noticing me looking down into the hold. I shout that the troll has spotted us and start firing my crossbow at it, hitting it with couple shots. Then I attempt to bind the troll in its place using one of my blood curses, but it manages to resist.

Kingsporth and Aedan run down the stairs, while Aust heroically jumps down the hole in the deck into the hold. Kingsporth sears the troll with his flamethrower, searing its flesh causing it to scream out in pain. Aust slashes at it with his warpick, smiting the troll with a furious wrath, and we see fear overcome it as it tries to flee from Aust. Aedan peppers it with arrows, staying out of reach of the troll.

At that moment, we see Santiago and Rotom come running to our aid, followed by a couple of ghosts. Now there are more ghosts on this ship? Santiago only mentioned one! As I turn my gaze and crossbow towards them, I see they're not hostile and also come to aid us in fighting the troll. Santiago tries to hypnotise the troll, but it manages to shrug off the effects of the coloured lights.

Then the troll runs off in fear of Aust, bashing into Knobsworth as it tries to reach the stairs to flee the encounter. It smashes it's fists and claws into Knobsworth's armour, putting massive dents in it and knocking the flamethrower off its arm. In response to this massive barrage, Knobsworth flees up the stairs, screaming at me that it has got it in for him.

As the troll ran out of sight from my position on deck, I run past Knobsworth down the stairs, firing three shots from my crossbow in its abdomen, chest and head. This downs the troll, but as we stand over its body, we can see the wounds start to regenerate. Rotom takes out a torch and lights it, starting to sear the troll with it. For a short moment it writhes in pain as the life starts to leave it.

We take a breather after this encounter, and then Rotom and Santiago notice the massive frozen treasure encased in ice. Rotom's eyes start to glimmer and she walks up to the icy wall, pressing her face against the ice, trying to hug the still unobtainable treasure. Of course, this also attracts Santiago's attention and immediately starts thinking of a plan to melt the ice. He then thinks he can encase part of the ice in his protective hut and starts chanting the spell to do so.

The rest of us start searching the ship. Aedan searches the aft-hold of the ship and finds a couple of frozen water barrels, thinking it used to be the ship's water storage. Searching the fore-hold of the ship, Aust finds a diary or logbook, written in common. There's nothing else we find in the hold here, so we start searching the rooms on deck.

Aust and I climb up the stairs and walk to the aft castle, only to find a frozen shut door. Aust casts Prestidigitation to melt away some of the ice and we finally manage to break through the door. A body lies on the floor, wearing a jacket and a hat, holding a journal under its arm. This must have been the captain. Aust picks up the captain's journal and tucks it away. Searching the room, we find a chest hidden away in an alcove, which has also been frozen shut. Doing the same trick as with the door, Aust melts away the ice, and we can now open it.

The lid of the chest creaks as we open it, and we see it is partitioned into two compartments. In one partition is a large leather pouch and a golden bracelet. In the other, there's a grey cloth bag, seemingly empty. We take out the stuff and see what's inside the pouch and bag. The leather pouch contains 150 gold and 525 silver. Inside the grey bag, I notice a quivering fuzzy ball. I take it out to see what it is, but as soon as I do so, a massive dire wolf spawns next to me. Aust and I freeze up to await its response, but it just looks at me, panting, seemingly awaiting a command. We've heard about these kinds of bags, they're called bag of tricks and can summon items or creatures on command.

Aedan has come up on deck as well, scouting the fore cabins of the ship. Aust and I join him and we each go into a different cabin. Aust finds a mostly empty lockbox tucked under a bed. The name [[Vaelish Gant]] is inscribed inside. A small brass key is found inside, but it seems to miss the actual key head. However, the shaft of the key is engraved with circles containing a dot in it. 

In the frontmost cabin, Aedan finds a couple of barrels containing some equipment to be used on travels, some of which has been long spoiled, but nothing of actual interest. I explore what seems to be the first mate's room, but aside from some ruined notes, there's nothing to be found.

We regroup in the deck below and dump all the stuff we found on the floor in Santiago's cozy hut. Trying to detect magic through a spell, some of the items in the pile start lighting up. The grey bag is immediately picked up by Santiago, as well as some items which are encased in the ice. 

Rotom picks up the key that Aust found in the lockbox, as she recognises the symbols on it. Taking out her moonstone keyring, she start comparing each of the nine keys to the brass key, finding a single key with the very same markings on them. Encased inside the ice, we spot something made of brass which is also giving off a faint magical shimmer. Could this key match with it?

Meanwhile, the ghosts are still lingering about the ship without purpose. Santiago invites them ghosts to come inside and have a chat. We can now see the three ghosts clearly, they're the ship's first mate, navigator and surgeon. 

The ghosts seem to be somewhat convinced that Santiago is their captain! Interrogating the ghosts about what happened to "his" ship, the ghosts reply that they ran on land during a heavy storm. They were carrying three mages on their journey, but have lost one of them. The two remaining mages were unable to move the ship as well, their magic not strong enough to move the enormous weight of the ship. The two mages then took off, but not before the ghosts managed to see that one mage killed the other.

Asking the ghosts about the treasure, they say the have never seen it before. They didn't carry it on the ship while they sailing, so it must have been placed here after it ran ashore. 

Seeing the hesitant demeanour of the ghosts, Rotom starts asking Santiago is he's _really_ the captain of the ship. Santiago looks at all of us and starts stuttering a bit, eventually confessing he's really the grandson of the captain of this ship. Stating this, he asks the ghosts if they saw what happened to his grandfather, but the ghosts never saw any of it.

Sitting on a couch, Aust is reading through the captain's journal, reading its various entries on the travels. Its first page is signed with a name, [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos, or Grok]]. A shimmer appears on Santiago as he starts moaning and muttering, his body lurching backwards. From his body, another ghost apparates and floats towards Aust. Santiago's body drops to the floor, a confused look on his face. The ghost asks Aust for the journal, as it is his for he's the captain of the ship. Assessing the situation that has coalesced before us, Aust carefully hands the journal over to the captain, only for it to drop to the floor as it passes through his ethereal hands.

Santiago sees these events unfold before his eyes, and suddenly demands the ghost possesses him again. What the hell is going on here? Questioning Santiago, we now learn that the orc we know as Santiago is actually a fisherman called [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos, or Grok|Grok]] from a nearby orc settlement. He stumbled on the ship on a fishing trip, when he was then possessed by the ghost of the captain of the ship, whose name is actually Santiago Cruz de los Santos.

The ghost captain repossesses Grok's body and we continue our conversation about what happened to the ship, its crew and the mages travelling with them. During their travels, the ghost mention that they lost a mage named [[Dzaan]]. This confuses some of us, as [[Speaker Oarus|Oarus]] had mentioned before he was visited by a mage going by the same name. Was he really visited by Dzaan, or was it an impostor?

From the melting ice, a first item seems to break loose, as a shield falls on the ground. This was one of the magical items that Santiago noticed. Aust picks it up, as he's the only one who seems to be able to put it to good use.

Rotom seems to be intrigued by the idea of being possessed by one of the ghosts, and proposes to carry one of the ethereal spirits with her, to try and find a solution to release them from this plane. As the ghost kindly takes up on Rotom's offer and floats towards her, we're all shaken up when we suddenly hear the whooshing sound of massive wings flapping through the air, a bone chilling roar and a load thump as enormous white claws with black talons land on the ship. The ship creaks under the sudden weight it has to bear.

A powerful voice thunders through the air, calling out to us:

"I smell fresh flesh. Ready your spells Meltharond, for we have got some intruders."

===================

Loot in ice:

- Shield of the abjurers
- Cli Lyre
- Scroll raise dead
- Scroll of knock
- 2 greater healing potions
- 1 potion of frost giant strength