# 3. The Cold Hearted Killer

**15 Nightal - Termalaine**

Once we got to [[Termalaine]], the group split up. To keep an eye on the approaching caravan, [[Marlon Tayte|Marlon]] and [[Aust Rime|Aust]] went to the edge of town to see if they could spot them before they arrived. [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]], [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos|Santiago]] and I went to speak to [[Speaker Oarus]] to warn them and see if he could help us. We sent Ivahn and Gareth to the inn and told them we would catch up with them later.

At first sight, Oarus greeted me with a warm smile, told me it was good to see me. His smile turned to a confused frown when he saw Santiago as orcs aren't common creatures around here. And when his gaze met Rotom's, he got even more confused. Startled even. I quickly explained they were my friends and we needed his help. We went inside to talk and saw a young gnome girl playing in front of the hearth, [[Kesni]]. It was good to see her again, all well and happy. Still, the pain in my heart every time I see her won't subside. Not any time soon, poor girl...

We told Oarus about the approaching caravan and the suspected ties to the recent murders. Then, he told us he needs our help too with the local militia. They were not really fond of Oarus as there was a situation at the mine. Kobold infestation, missing miners. Great. Explains his startled look when he saw Rotom. I told him we would help him out with the mine situation, if he would help us out with the caravan. Oarus agreed and we quickly gathered the few militia members that were still on his side.

In the meanwhile, Aust and Marlon saw the caravan approaching. There was indeed a merchant company on 3 sleds, flying black banners with a golden wolf's paw. They were led by a halfling woman, accompanied by some helpers and guards, one of which matched [[Henrack]]'s description. Aust seemed to notice that the guards had some kind of an undead aura about them. Another thing was off as well, they weren't clothed for this weather. No warm coats, no furs, no hats. Didn't seem to bother them either. Very suspicious. Aust and Marlon kept an eye on the caravan as they set up shop in the market square. They noticed the two guards suddenly leaving and they set out to follow.

We met Rime and Marlon in the middle of town when they were trailing the guards. Rotom and Santiago joined them, while I stayed with Oarus to gather the other militia members and keep an eye on the caravan in the market square. They set up shop as the halfling woman, Torrga Icevein, was shouting commands at her assistants. She seemed rather nervous. Too nervous for some reason. She seemed to be on the look out for someone as her gaze kept scanning the surrounding streets. Then I noticed something. Behind her, on top of some crates, was a dirty tarp seeming to cover what looked like a body. I mentioned this to Oarus and he concurred. We set out to talk to [[Torrga Icevein]] and confront her with what I thought I saw. She was startled and tried to dodge our initial questions, but when we looked under the tarp, our suspicions were confirmed. Beneath it was the body of a half elf, one of the missing miners according to Oarus. Oarus and the militia immediately arrested the caravan and I set out to meet my friends.

Taking off in the direction where my friends were headed, I ran through the center of town towards the woods bordering Termalaine. Soon I spotted their tracks and reached them not too far into the woods. My friends were wounded, but seemed to be okay. They mentioned they fought the two caravan guards, who drew their weapons when Aust shouted they were under arrest. One of the guards was killed, the other one got away, wounded. The one matching Henrack's description was apparently able to summon daggers of ice. The dead guard, who we learned was called [[Sephak]], had magically summoned a sword made of ice. When we searched the body of the guard they killed, we found a ransom note for 30 gold with a picture of a half elf. It was a picture of the half elf that was under Torrga's tarp! Looks like [[Hiln Trollbane]] was right. Henrack is the Cold Hearted Killer.

We carried the body back into town towards Oarus. Oarus had placed Torrga under arrest and we started questioning her when we got back with the guard. We learned that the ransom note was from a criminal organization known as the [[Frozen Roses]], led by a woman named [[Adelia]]. Oarus told us he heard of them, but never got to know their whereabouts. Torrga was pretty forthcoming when Santiago started mutilating the guard's body and threatening to do the same to her. Sometimes he's pretty useful, although his methods may be... a bit unorthodox. I've seen worse. Far worse... Torrga told us that we could find [[Frozen Roses hideout|the hideout of the Frozen Roses]] to the north of [[Lonelywood]], a bit into the woods. We had to look out for a cave with a large skull as an entrance.

This was a long, long day. I'm tired, confused and mad. Mad at myself for even coming here, trying to escape the dangers from below. Hardly seems any better. Maybe it is. Maybe not. We'll see.

Oarus invited all of us to stay at his house for a warm meal and a good night's rest. Spent some time there with Kesni as well. She really seems to like me. Still don't understand why as I couldn't save her parents. I'm not deserving of her love.