# 4. Gloom and Gems

**16 Nightal - Termalaine**

It's pitch black in the middle of the night. Someone calls my name. My locket feels warm against my chest. I wake up. "Grolto, are you awake, my dear?" Instinctively, I grab my locket and open it. It's [[Yerthid]], she's talking to me. It's good to hear her voice again, although it instills great sadness and anger again. I look over to [[Kesni]], she's sound asleep. Didn't hear a thing.

Yerthid warned me of an evil presence downstairs, where everybody is sleeping. I got up as quickly and silently as possible and went downstairs. Nothing to be seen there, but Yerthid insists something, or someone, is here. I take a look around, but see nothing suspicious. Suddenly I hear Santiago uttering some words in his sleep: "Yes, my Dark Duchess". Who's this [[Dark Duchess]]? This doesn't bode well. Another thing we have to talk about, aside from guard situation in [[Targos]]... Yerthid then mentioned that the presence had left. Hmm, must have either been invisible, perhaps on a different plane? Not sure though. After taking a look around to make sure everyone's safe, I went back upstairs. Tucked Kesni in and went back to bed.

In the morning all of us had breakfast downstairs. We had barely finished or we were startled by shouting outside: "They're dead! [[Gareth]] and [[Ivahn]], they're dead!". It was [[Marta Peskryk]], the daughter of Clyde who runs the Blue Clam. Well, this is rather unfortunate. We investigated the room they were staying in, but didn't find many clues aside from some boot prints outside the window, a white owl feather and a note saying "Auril always gets her due". Guess we got that coming for us, meddling with Auril's sacrifices. Should've known better... We tried to see if we could track the flight path of the owl, but the tracks ran dead in the forest.

We reported what we discovered to [[Speaker Oarus|Oarus]] and the set foot towards the mine. After all, we promised to help him with the kobold situation there. When we arrived at the mine, it was quiet. No kobold activity to be seen in the immediate surroundings. We went inside to check out the interior. It was dark. Real dark. It's a good thing I can see in the dark. 

We went inside the mine. The first few corridors were empty. It was quiet. Then the forward part of the group took a right corridor, [[Aust Rime|Aust]] and me went left. There I heard the sound of rushing water, possibly a waterfall, and spotted some rodent tracks. Large rodents. Mentioned this to Aust and he immediately rushed forward into the next room, where he was met by two [[Giant rat|giant rats]]. What's with all these people rushing head first into danger? Urgh. I went after him to see what he was up against, but by the time I saw him, he had already cut one of the rats in half. He made short work of the second rat too.

Afterwards, we regrouped and continued into the mine. We arrived at a huge drop in the floor, went down hundreds, maybe thousands of feet. On the opposite side was a large rushing waterfall. The sound of the water falling was almost deafening. We had to shout to hear each other. Seeing this, I had a hunch we might have passed this same waterfall when I led the expedition from the Underdark to the surface. Pretty sure of it now. If that was the case, it would be a long, long way down if we fell in there.

We continued along a rickety set of wooden planks attached to the wall. The planks creaked as we walked across them. Luckily they held us. We took a lift down to the next level of the mine. Down there, we spotted some kobold tracks leading into one corridor, and hear chattering down the other. Possibly the kobolds? Santiago went straight towards the chattering. Typical.

About 30ft down that corridor, we spotted two kobolds on top of a table, making sure a giant rat was as dead as it could be. They spotted us too. [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] suddenly took the lead and started talking with the kobolds. She convinced them to take us to their leader, [[Trex]]. We went down a set of stairs down into the next level of the mine.

There were a few more kobolds. Five to be exact. The leader, Trex, and four of his followers. Trex seemed rather strange. Kept clutching a purse on his side. Never let it go. Rotom and I tried to talk to Trex in Draconic, but he didn't understand. Rather suspicious for a kobold to not understand their native tongue... Something was off. I mentioned this to Santiago. After a short talk, we convinced Trex to come topside with us to talk to [[Speaker Oarus|Oarus]] about the situation. But it was a distraction from the real plan: separate him from the other kobolds and see who he really was. Aust and Rotom stayed with the other kobolds to try to learn more, while Santiago, Marlon and me went up with Trex.

In the room where we initially met the first two kobolds, Santiago pinned Trex against the wall and said he should start talking. Trex tried to resist, but Santiago had a tight grip on him. Santiago hit him to try to... convince him. Then, I spotted something strange. A blue-green shimmer, humanoid in shape, seeming to come out of Trex. It was a ghost that seemed to have possessed poor Trex. We started fought the ghost and made quick work of it. It dropped some translucent liquid on the floor, looked like ectoplasm. Might come in handy later, so I picked up what I could. 

When the ghost left Trex' body, he also let go of the purse. Marlon picked it up to see what was inside there, as Trex previously was eagerly clutching it. It contained some shards of metal of a mysterious origin. Marlon seemed to recognize this type of metal and tucked it away safely. Probably for the best.

Trex didn't really seem to remember much and wondered who we were. He started speaking Draconic again, seems like the ghost that possessed him isn't able to understand or speak the language of its host. We explained the situation to Trex, why we were in the mine, looking for the missing miners. He offered to help us in exchange for our help with their situation.

What we saw when we went back down was mind blowing. Rotom had suddenly taken the lead of the other kobolds! She had learned that the kobolds were forced out of their home, in Kelvin's Cairn, by some duergar. Bloody grey dwarves seem to have made their way here too... We promised to help them out by talking to Oarus and headed out again.

On the way out, we passed a rope bridge across the chasm with the waterfall that led to another set of caverns. We spotted what looked like a weird skull on the other side. Carefully we went across the rope bridge to see what was there. [[Marlon Tayte|Marlon]] was the first to arrive on the opposite end of the chasm and went straight towards the skull. It was embedded in the wall and had a strange purple glow emanating from it. When I got to the other side, I recognized it as a skull of an illithid, otherwise known as a [[Mind flayer]]. Tried to warn Marlon that it might be dangerous, but it was too late. He had already grabbed the skull, it crumbled to dust in his fingers. It did reveal where the glow came from, a strange, glowing, purple crystal. 

Marlon reached out to take it from the wall. As soon as he touched the crystal, something happened...