# Session 5
I was right behind [[Marlon]] when he picked up the glowing stone from the stone wall. It had a strange purple glow around it. Marlon seemed absent for a moment when he admired the stone, before he stowed it away. Was he just admiring the beauty of the gem? Or was there something strange about this artifact? I might ask him if I could examine it later on.

Suddenly a muffled boom shook the mine! Dust fell from the ceiling and rocks rolled down the walls. I quickly went to find [[Santiago]] in the next room, where he found a rich vein of geodes. Lacking the proper tools to extract these, we decided to leave them for now. We crossed the rope bridge across the chasm with the waterfall to regroup. We checked if everyone was alright after what seemed like a distant explosion, luckily no one was injured. [[Aust Rime|Aust]] threw a torch down the shaft to see if there was something from down under coming up, but we didn't see anything coming up. Looking up however, I spotted something on the level above, floating into a chamber.

We went back up, clearing the mine's second level. When we got to the bucket that went back up, we realised there was another hall way that we didn't investigate yet. Santiago and Marlon already went back up to the first level, as Aust, [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] and I followed the tracks down that path to the next room. At first, it seemed empty, aside from a pile of bones and rotten clothing. The bones seemed humanoid, could these have been the missing miners?

There was an opening on the other side of the room, that led to the shaft with the waterfall. Aust walked up to the opening to see if he could spot the creature, but as soon as he peeked down over the edge, the creature attacked him from above! It tried to grapple him with its tentacles, but he managed to resist it. Marlon and Santiago must've heard us, as we saw a javelin coming down on the creature. The javelin bounced off the creature and clattered into the room.

Aust and Rotom were fighting the creature up close. Rotom even climbed up on Aust's shoulders to get at the creature. The creature saw that as an opportunity to grab and attack Rotom. She took a seriously nasty hit as she immediately went unconscious. With Rotom in its tentacles, it started floating back into the shaft! If we would kill the creature now, it would mean her death too... I grabbed my rope, tied a knot in it and threw it towards the creature. It flew through the air and it managed to get around the creature! Now that was a very, _very_ lucky shot... I pulled back as hard as I could to pull the creature back into the room, right up in the face of Aust. Now it was in the room, I could recognize the creature as a [[Grell]].

Meanwhile, we heard a scream coming from the shaft. It sounded like Santiago, falling down the shaft! I held my breath as the scream got louder and louder, but then there was a sudden groan. I figured Santiago must be dangling from a rope in the shaft, but we couldn't see him. Was the rope too short? Probably. However, it seemed he did see Rotom's dire situation and managed to heal her and get her back to consciousness. The creature seemed unaware of Rotom and she managed to get a very nasty hit against the creature. Aust managed to take another swing at it as well, and it started to look seriously injured. 

The situation started to take a turn for the better. Rotom was back on the ground, the creature started to look bad and I still had it grappled. Another javelin came down, but it just missed as we heard it clattering down against the walls in the shaft, before the sound was overtaken by the rushing of the waterfall. Still holding on to the rope with one hand, I managed to take my hand crossbow and fire a shot at it. It shot straight through its beak and went out the other side, killing it in an instant.

I went up to the creature, to see if I could harvest anything useful. I managed to cut off two intact tentacles. These tentacles look like they could make a good whip, need to check out a leather worker in the area. I did puncture the venom sac below its beak, alas spilling it on the ground.

We went back up and regrouped, took care of our wounds and had a short rest. Afterwards we headed back to [[Termalaine]] to see [[Speaker Oarus|Oarus]]. The kobold troop wasn't going to leave Rotom's side, so they went with us. Townsfolk gave us some weird looks seeing us walk in with 7 other kobolds from the mine.

- Killed [[Grell]] in mine
- Took Grell and kobolds to [[Oarus]]
- [[Speaker Nearth]] from [[Targos]] has quite some influence in [[Termalaine]]
- Oarus asked us to investigate [[Pippa Ebonfall]] and her connection to Auril and [[Speaker Nearth]]
- 