# Trembling turmoil
I was right behind [[Marlon]] when he picked up the glowing stone from the stone wall. It had a strange purple glow around it. Marlon seemed absent for a moment when he admired the stone, before he stowed it away. Was he just admiring the beauty of the gem? Or was there something strange about this artifact? I might ask him if I could examine it later on.

Suddenly a muffled boom shook the mine! The ground trembled, dust fell from the ceiling and rocks rolled down the walls. I quickly went to find [[Santiago]] in the next cavern, where he found a rich vein of geodes. Lacking the proper tools to mine these, we decided to leave them for now. We crossed the rope bridge across the chasm with the waterfall to regroup. Luckily everyone was alright after what seemed like a distant explosion, no one was injured. [[Aust Rime|Aust]] threw a torch down the shaft to see if there was something from below coming up, but we didn't see anything coming up. Looking up however, I spotted something on the level above, a floating creature that flew into a chamber.

We went back up, clearing the mine's second level. When we got to the bucket that went back up, we realised there was another hallway that we didn't investigate yet. Santiago and Marlon already went back up to the first level, as Aust, [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] and I followed the tracks that we spotted before down that path to the next room. At first, it seemed empty, aside from a pile of bones and rotten clothing. The bones seemed humanoid, could these have been the missing miners or kobolds?

There was an opening on the other side of the room, that led to the shaft with the waterfall. Aust walked up to the opening to see if he could spot the creature, but as soon as he peeked down over the edge, the creature tried to grapple him from above with its tentacles, but he managed to resist it. Marlon and Santiago must've heard us, as we saw a javelin coming down on the creature. The javelin partially pierced its head, bounced off and clattered into the room.

Aust and Rotom were fighting the creature up close. Rotom ordered her kobold troop to aid us in attacking the creature. She then climbed up on Aust's shoulders to get at the creature. The creature saw that as an opportunity to grab and attack Rotom. Must've been a seriously nasty hit as she immediately went limp and grasped her off of Aust's shoulders. With Rotom in its tentacles, it started floating back into the shaft! If we would kill the creature now, they'd fall a very long way down and it would mean her death too... I quickly grabbed my rope, tied a knot in it and threw it towards the creature. It flew through the air and it managed to get around the creature! Now that was a very, _very_ lucky shot... I pulled back as hard as I could to pull the creature back into the room, right up in the face of Aust. Now it was closer to me in the room, I could recognize the creature as a [[Grell]].

Meanwhile, we heard a scream coming from the shaft. It sounded like Santiago, falling down the shaft! I held my breath as the scream got louder and louder, but then there was a sudden groan. I figured Santiago must be dangling from a rope in the shaft, but we couldn't see him. Was the rope too short? Probably. However, it seemed he did see Rotom's dire situation and managed to heal her and get her back to consciousness. The creature seemed unaware of Rotom and she managed to get a very nasty hit against the creature. Aust managed to take another swing at it as well, and it started to look seriously injured. 

The situation started to take a turn for the better. Rotom was back on the ground, the creature started to look bad and I still had it grappled. Another javelin came down, but it just missed as we heard it clattering down against the walls in the shaft, before the sound was overtaken by the rushing of the waterfall. Still holding on to the rope with one hand, I managed to take my hand crossbow and fire a shot at it. It shot straight through its beak and went out the other side, killing it in an instant.

I walked up to the creature, to see if I could harvest anything useful. I managed to cut off two intact tentacles. These tentacles look like they could make a good whip, need to check out a leather worker in the area. However, I punctured the poison gland below its beak, alas spilling its poison it on the ground. 

We went back up and regrouped, took care of our wounds and had a short rest. Marlon bound the remainder of the creature with some rope and lifted it on his back. Then we headed back to [[Termalaine]] to see [[Speaker Oarus|Oarus]]. The kobold troop wasn't going to leave Rotom's side, so they went with us. Folk gave us some weird looks seeing us walk through town with a bunch of kobolds from the mine.

Oarus was surprised to see us arriving with 7 other kobolds and the gruesome remains of the Grell, but offered us to enter his home nonetheless. Kesni was excited to see me again, I was glad to see she was doing okay. Oarus seemed on edge though, asking us if we were trailed by someone. We didn't spot anyone along the way, so we told him we were good. 

Us returning with the kobolds from the mine was a bit worrying to him, but we explained the whole situation to him. Trex was possessed, dwarves drove them from [[Kelvin's Cairn]] and they settled in the mine. After assuring Oarus we gained their trust, they were friendly and eager to help out, he agreed that the kobolds weren't the cause of the missing miners.

Oarus explained he was a bit anxious about the coming election, as he had powerful opposition from the leader of the militia, [[Pippa Ebonfall]]. A while ago, [[Speaker Nearth]] from [[Targos]] told Oarus that Pippa would defeat him the coming election. Like the residents in Targos, Pippa was also in favour of making sacrifices to Auril to try and improve the situation. These sacrifices started around two months ago, just before me and [[Kesni]] got here. That and the fact that she controlled the militia that opposed Oarus, made Oarus feel quite uncomfortable. 

We spoke for a bit about the murders, Auril, and the sacrifices.

Recently, food also became another major issue around Ten Towns. Due to the endless winter, the only source of food came from the nearby lakes, but the fishermen are bringing in less and less trout every week. Growing crops is practically impossible. Oarus told us about some other inhabitants in the area, the dwarves that live in [[Kelvin's Cairn]]. They have been getting new recruits in over the past period, so they must be able to feed them as well. We figured that setting up a trade route with the dwarves could maybe provide Ten Towns with enough food to get rid of the shortage.

Learning all this, it looked like we had a plan to get Oarus gain favour with the locals again. We would attribute the recent victories to Oarus and say we have a plan to help out with the food shortage, without sacrificing fellow townsfolk. The plan sounds pretty solid, now let's hope the locals agree with it too.



- Killed [[Grell]] in mine
- Took Grell and kobolds to [[Oarus]]
- [[Speaker Nearth]] from [[Targos]] has quite some influence in [[Termalaine]]
- Oarus asked us to investigate [[Pippa Ebonfall]] and her connection to Auril and [[Speaker Nearth]]
- 