# A turn for the better, a turn for the worse

**17 Nightal - [[Termalaine]]**

## Visiting Amala Bhilar

There she was, the elven woman standing behind the desk of Sune's Comfort and Hot Springs. [[Amala Bhilar]], with her blonde hair and shining bright blue eyes. She welcomed us as soon as we walked in, seeming to hope we were patrons of her establishment. 

Her hope seemed to dwindle a bit soon as we started introducing ourselves and explaining the reason why we were there, because [[Oarus]] told us she had problems with the monster from the lake. Recently, a monster in the lake started scaring Amala's patrons away when they were enjoying some time in the hot springs. Less and less people started coming, afraid of the monster reappearing. With fewer people coming to the hot springs, the appearances of the monster reduced. When we asked her if the monster ever spoke to her or her clientele, she seemed surprised at the question. She never heard the monster speak or someone mentioning it.

Amala did mention she was visited by a druid one day, [[Ravisin]]. A woman with long black hair. Came from Lonelywood apparently. Aust seemed to remember something about a druid circle there in the forest, in Lonelywood Grove. This grove was founded by Sahnar of Luruar, Ward of Mallieki and keeper of Lonelywood Grove. Ravisin asked Amala if she wanted to join her cause, to take back the land and end the Rime. Amala declined the offer and Ravisin was never seen again. Shortly after, the trouble started with the lake monster.

Asking about her eyes, Amala told us that she was born on mid-winter's day and as such, she became blessed by Auril. It seemed to make her not mind the cold so much, but made her less withstanding of heat. Funny that she's running the _hot_ springs then. She did mention that she was not a follower of Auril as she disapproved of Auril's cruelty. Instead, she was a follower of Sune, the deity of beauty and love.

Suddenly, the elemental lantern I carried with me turned green and we heard loud screams coming from downstairs. Santiago drew his sword and rushed downstairs. I ran after [[Santiago]] down the stairs, when I heard Amala shouting at us. "Stop, it's not what you think!". I ran back up to ask what she meant. She told me that she had some animals downstairs and that the screaming was not caused by something dangerous, but by some being that seemed to visit the establishment.

Together with Amala I ran down the stairs towards the others. The monkeys were screaming at a small black creature with a white mask on the ground. We found that Santiago had smashed the window to a cage of some macaque monkeys to distract them. That plan back-fired and he was now in a face off with one of them. The monkey bared its teeth at Santiago, which seemed to trigger Santiago. His response to this monkey was something I had never seen before. He got undressed, actually completely naked, and started shouting back at the monkey. We all stood there for a moment, eyes and jaws wide open, absolutely dumbfounded at Santiago's response to the screaming monkey. Apparently the small creature didn't like the sight of this and disappeared in a small puff of smoke.

Unsurprisingly, Santiago's move didn't improve the situation as the monkey got even more aggressive immediately after and managed to bite Santiago in the arm. Santiago managed to strike the monkey hard with his fist, which made the monkey reel back in agony. Seeing these events starting to unfold, Amala cast a spell which seemed to calm everybody down. In the moment of sudden tranquility, Santiago stepped into one of the hot springs, followed by the monkey. Amala cast a spell to heal the monkey. Upon seeing this, Santiago also asked if he could be healed as he was bitten by her monkey. But Amala denied his request as he put this upon himself. I had to agree that Amala was right here.

With the situation calmed down, the small creature reappeared in the room. Immediately there was a faint smell of something fruity in the air. Aust seemed to recognize these creatures as [[Chwinga|Chwinga's]], elemental creatures that are attracted to beautiful places. Santiago started talking to the creature and it teleported itself to him. Another smell in the air, ham? It teleported back and forth between Santiago and Aust, with another couple of smells in the air as they conversed with the creature. Tar, honeysuckle, violet. The Chwinga did seem pretty friendly towards Aust and before it left, it seemed to have cast a spell on Aust.

After this curious start of the day, we figured we still had some time until we had to get to the market square for Oarus' speech. We walked outside, towards the lake to see if we could learn more about the lake monster appearances. Santiago, still under the influence of Amala's spell, went straight into the lake and started shouting to lure the lake monster. Aust went ahead and threw some fish in the water as bait. We waited for a couple moments, but we didn't see anything out of the ordinary. Then, Santiago gave out a loud scream! Aust spotted something underneath Santiago in the water and quickly pulled out a spear. He threw it into the water and it hit something! When he pulled the spear back out, we saw it was a knucklehead trout that bit Santiago's toe...

We were about to leave when we spotted something in the water. Something large. A bulge breaking the surface, going under again. It resurfaced closer. Seemed to be moving towards us. Santiago was still in the water, so I shouted at him to get out! The creature came closer and closer when it finally surfaced near us. A large, monstrous head with rows of long sharp teeth was looking straight at us. We asked ourselves out loud if this was the same creature that spoke in Common to us on the boat here. It replied "Yes, I speak Common"! This seemed to be the same creature!

Amala went pale and silent, looked at it with big scared eyes. We asked the creature how it could talk and it told us that it gained intelligence and the ability to speak from a woman with black hair. Would this be the same druid that visited Amala? The woman asked the creature to harass the people that visited the hot springs, or else it would lose the ability to speak. We asked for its name, but it didn't seem to recognize the concept of names. We decided to call it Bob, Bob the Lake Monster. Santiago tried to broker a deal with the creature, so it would stop harassing people in return for food every week. The creature seemed worried that it would anger the woman and lose its ability to speak, but after some hesitation it did agree to the deal. Amala agreed as well, so it seemed that this settled the lake monster problem. At least for now.

We returned inside the establishment. Amala went back up to the front desk and I followed shortly after. She offered her thanks to us and said she had a small reward for us. A pouch of 50 gold, which could've been more if Santiago didn't smash the window. Someone's not gonna get this reward... Maybe this will teach him from acting like a fool? Probably not. 

Amala asked us if she can be of any help to us. I told her about Oarus' speech this afternoon and she offered to help out in Oarus' favour. She also gave us some more information on the Church of Auril and the Creed of Auril. The Creed apparently split off from the Church of Auril, with some of their more zealous members. While the Church deals more nature's beauty and wrath, the Creed of Auril cares more for the absolute evil aspects of the freezing cold, death and sacrifices. This could be an interesting lead to investigate when we get to Targos again...

We thanked Amala for her time and decided to see how Oarus' was doing with his speech preparations. Once we went outside, one of Rotom's kobolds was panicking as he rushed off, chasing some animal. The other kobolds said a skunk escaped from his cage, which one of the kobolds was carrying around as a kind of weapon. We ran after the kobold to see if we could help him catch the skunk again, to put it back in its cage. We managed to subdue the animal and capture it. Looking around to see if we attracted some attention, I spotted a couple figures looking at us, before they turned away and walked off. Something seemed suspicious here...

## Oarus' speech

We continued to Oarus' house, and as we walked through the market square we saw some people preparing the podium that Oarus would speak from later. Once we got to Oarus' house, we heard him rehearsing his speech upstairs for a while before he came down to see us. We mentioned that we helped Amala with her lake monster problem and that she was willing to help him out too. With the recent wins in [[Termalaine]], I think he has a strong case to get people on his side.

We rested for a while, as they completed the podium outside. When Oarus was ready, we followed him to the town square to watch his speech. As Oarus stepped on the podium, the chatter in the crowd dwindled down as everybody focused on Oarus.

Oarus started out by talking about the mine problem. Rotom and her kobold troop were on stage and Oarus was defending their case, pointing out they were not the cause of the missing miners. I suppose the dashing outfits that Rotom chose for them helped out with their image. Once Oarus mentioned the [[Grell|grell]] and that we killed it in the mine, Marlon carried it on stage, and Oarus explained this creature from the Underdark was the predator that killed the miners. People were terrified at the sight of the creature. Apparently, Amala contacted Oarus in the meanwhile as well, and offered her services as a cleric to hold a small ceremony for the killed miners in a few days. Looked like Oarus gained some trust with the locals as there was some cheering from the crowd.

Then, Oarus mentioned the issue of the food shortage. He acknowledged that it became a more pressing issue as people started to get more and more desperate about the situation. He explained the plan that we were going to set out towards the dwarves, to see if they were willing to set up a trading deal, to possibly trade items and gems from the mine for food. Once the people heard about this plan, we saw people getting visibly more excited. There was more clapping and cheering from the crowd, even more excited than before.

As Oarus finished up his speech, the proprietor of the Blue Clam offered everyone in the square a round on the house hearing these exciting announcements. And with that, the crowd started dispersing. We saw some people walking towards Oarus to congratulate him and shake hands. Among them were even some guards that I recognized to be on Pippa's side before. Seemed this speech even had Oarus regain some trust with the local militia again, which was a very good sign that things were changing for the better.

A couple minutes later, we started joining the crowd in the Blue Clam to celebrate this with them. We enjoyed some drinks and started chatting to the locals, to see how the townsfolk really felt about all this. Most were pretty excited and seemed hopeful that things would improve again. I saw Santiago joining a lone man at a table and started to feed him drink after drink. Looked like he was onto something. Not long after, he got up with the man and started walking outside. He was eyeing us to join him, but no one else seemed to notice but me. I joined them and walked out of the Blue Clam.

Santiago, the man and I started walking away from the Blue Clam. The man apparently was one of the militia that got a bit chatty after all those drinks. We learned about the ties between [[Speaker Naerth Maxildanarr]] and [[Pippa Ebonfall]]. Pippa was not a local, she was originally from Luskan. The guard mentioned that recently Pippa had received a strange gift from someone, green flying snakes. This seemed like an unusual gift to receive, maybe someone wanted to gain her favour. Speaker Naerth perhaps? The guard also mentioned that Pippa was currently out of town, visiting Speaker Naerth in Targos. 

The guard also mentioned the sacrifices, something about buying your way out of the lottery for a hefty sum of money. Apparently, the people that did so, still ended up dead shortly after. Stabbed in the heart with an icy weapon. This leads back to the cold hearted killer. When the guard uttered the phrase "Auril always get her due", it all seemed to fall into place. Both the sacrifices and the murders are done in Auril's favour, and someone's earning a lot of money over these dead people...

While we were walking in a quiet part of town, Santiago let the guard trip and fall to into the snow on the ground. He acted all helpful and offered to remove his coat to clean off the snow, which left the man vulnerable to the cold. I started to notice what Santiago was getting to here... Not again, not here, not in my town. Luckily, Santiago managed to keep his temper and gave the man his coat back and we sent him off to his home.

## A turn for the worse

Santiago and I walked back to rejoin the group at the Blue Clam, when we passed the shed where [[Torrga Icevein]]'s sleds and wares were stored. The doors to the shed were open, where they used to be locked up tightly before as it contained some evidence. We went inside the shed to investigate, but the shed was empty! The sleds and Torrga's merchandise were gone. All that remained were some small pools of oil on the ground, which we recognized to be the whale oil that Torrga was trading. Taking a closer look, I found a frozen pinky finger on the ground, which didn't seem to belong to something alive when it snapped off...

Outside, we found some tracks of the sleds that led northwards out of town. The sleds were nowhere to be found, so we decided to rush back to the Blue Clam to fetch the others. The others were as surprised as us and we decided to tell Oarus about this. Passing town hall, we happened to notice the doors were open and the inside was dark. Strange, as usually these doors are closed to keep the cold at bay. 

Peeking inside, it was dark and no one was to be seen. We went inside to investigate. The clerk that usually mans the front desk was unseen, and the lights were off. For some reason, Marlon decided to ram his fist into one of the wooden walls, what got into him? There went our silent entry... If someone was still inside, surely they would've heard that. 

Rotom sent some of her kobolds further into the town hall, into a hallway leading to the prison cells. The kobolds quickly came back in panic to say they found five dead people! All of us went ahead to see what happened as we found five people burnt to a crisp in their cells. These were the cells were Torrga and her crew were held! We found some oily boot prints leading up to the cells, looked to be the same type of oil we saw in the shed. Did a spell caster do this? Had this happened when we were in the town square, listening to Oarus? Or perhaps when we were celebrating in the Blue Clam? Someone is trying to cover something up here.

Marlon and Aust decided to start looking for the clerk that usually works here, while Santiago, Rotom and me decided to go see Oarus. We rushed towards Oarus' house and knocked on his door. In panic I tried to explain the situation; Torrga's death, the missing sled, clerk missing from the town hall. Oarus saw the panic in my eyes and quickly came with us, together with a couple of guards. He sent one guard northward out of town to see if he could find out where the sled tracks led to.

Back in the town hall, we evaluated the situation and tried to find more clues. Rotom noticed something in a painting, there was a small rose scribbled on it. Could this have been the work of the Frozen Roses?! 

After a few minutes, Marlon and Aust came back. Marlon had noticed someone standing on a pier, inappropriately clothed for the weather. It was humming some kind of song. When Marlon and Aust approached the figure, they saw it was an undead creature, a [[Zombie|zombie]]. Marlon and the zombie apparently had a bit of a skirmish, but Marlon managed to overpower the zombie. As they were close to Amala's place, they figured she might be able to help them as she's a cleric and maybe could try to reverse the spell that turned it into a creature. When they brought the zombie to Amala, she immediately recognized him as [[Ecko]], the clerk from town hall. Someone seemingly transformed Ecko into a zombie and commanded him to kill Torrga and her crew? Amala couldn't reverse the zombification unfortunately. Marlon and Aust bound the zombie up and brought it to us at the town hall.

When Oarus spotted the zombie, he was shocked to see it was Ecko. Ecko was one of the few people that Oarus could trust. Oarus was sad to see he was gone now. 

Meanwhile, the zombie was still humming this song:

>>> Ahead of winter’s wind she came— 
>>> The lovely woman with no name; 
>>> Draped in a fur-lined cloak of red, 
>>> To the icy lake she fled; 
>>> The wind pursued her all the same— 
>>> As sure as night she’s dead.

Aust seemed to recognize this song as a nursery rhyme from [[Easthaven]]. The zombie's humming got more and more garbled as we were discussing what to do with it. With its speech turning into unintelligible moaning, it also got more restless. It was trying to get out of the rope that bound it and started to squirm on the ground. Eventually, it got really angry, spitting and gurgling loudly at us. The situation started to get dangerous now. Marlon got out his axe and cut its head off, before it could do anything to us. Looking at the body, I saw that it was missing a pinky finger. Seems the one we found in the shed belonged to Ecko's remains.

We asked Amala if she was able to do something for Ecko, but she reaffirmed to us that this was out of her league to turn around. She did mention that she was able to perform a certain ritual, which maybe be frowned upon by some people. She could make the dead talk again for a short while, allowing us to ask it five questions. We figured this would be our only hope to find out what happened here. 

The hard part now, was to think of five good questions we could ask it...