# Session Six
There she was, the elven woman standing behind the desk of Sune's Comfort and Hot Springs. [[Amala Bhilar]], with her blonde hair and shining bright blue eyes. She welcomed us as soon as we walked in, seeming to hope we were patrons of her establishment. 

Her hope seemed to dwindle a bit soon as we started introducing ourselves and explaining the reason why we were there, because [[Oarus]] told us she had problems with the monster from the lake. Recently, a monster in the lake started scaring Amala's patrons away when they were enjoying some time in the hot springs. Less and less people started coming, afraid of the monster reappearing. With fewer people coming to the hot springs, the appearances of the monster reduced. When we asked her if the monster ever spoke to her or her clientele, she seemed surprised at the question. She never heard the monster speak or someone mentioning it.

Amala did mention she was visited by a druid one day, [[Ravisin]]. A woman with long black hair. Came from Lonelywood apparently. Aust seemed to remember something about a druid circle there in the forest, in Lonelywood Grove. This grove was founded by Sahnar of Luruar, Ward of Mallieki and keeper of Lonelywood Grove. Ravisin asked Amala if she wanted to join her cause, to take back the land and end the Rime. Amala declined the offer and Ravisin was never seen again. Shortly after, the trouble started with the lake monster.

Asking about her eyes, Amala told us that she was born on mid-winter's day and as such, she became blessed by Auril. It seemed to make her not mind the cold so much, but made her less withstanding of heat. Funny that she's running the _hot_ springs then. She did mention that she was not a follower of Auril as she disapproved of Auril's cruelty. Instead, she was a follower of Sune, the deity of beauty and love.

Suddenly, the elemental lantern I carried with me turned green and we heard loud screams coming from downstairs. Santiago drew his sword and rushed downstairs. I ran after [[Santiago]] down the stairs, when I heard Amala shouting at us. "Stop, it's not what you think!". I ran back up to ask what she meant. She told me that she had some animals downstairs and that the screaming was not caused by something dangerous, but by some being that seemed to visit the establishment.

Together with Amala I ran down the stairs towards the others. The monkeys were screaming at a small black creature with a white mask on the ground. We found that Santiago had smashed the window to a cage of some macaque monkeys to distract them. That plan back-fired and he was now in a face off with one of them. The monkey bared its teeth at Santiago, which seemed to trigger Santiago. His response to this monkey was something I had never seen before. He got undressed, actually completely naked, and started shouting back at the monkey. We all stood there for a moment, eyes and jaws wide open, absolutely dumbfounded at Santiago's response to the screaming monkey. Apparently the small creature didn't like the sight of this and disappeared in a small puff of smoke.

Unsurprisingly, Santiago's move didn't improve the situation as the monkey got even more aggressive immediately after and managed to bite Santiago in the arm. Santiago managed to strike the monkey hard with his fist, which made the monkey reel back in agony. Seeing these events starting to unfold, Amala cast a spell which seemed to calm everybody down. In the moment of sudden tranquility, Santiago stepped into one of the hot springs, followed by the monkey. Amala cast a spell to heal the monkey. Upon seeing this, Santiago also asked if he could be healed as he was bitten by her monkey. But Amala denied his request as he put this upon himself. I had to agree that Amala was right here.

With the situation calmed down, the small creature reappeared in the room. Immediately there was a faint smell of something fruity in the air. Aust seemed to recognize these creatures as [[Chwinga|Chwinga's]], elemental creatures that are attracted to beautiful places. Santiago started talking to the creature and it teleported itself to him. Another smell in the air, ham? It teleported back and forth between Santiago and Aust, with another couple of smells in the air as they conversed with the creature. Tar, honeysuckle, violet. The Chwinga did seem pretty friendly towards Aust and before it left, it seemed to have cast a spell on Aust.

After this curious start of the day, we figured we still had some time until we had to get to the market square for Oarus' speech. We walked outside, towards the lake to see if we could learn more about the lake monster appearances. Santiago, still under the influence of Amala's spell, went straight into the lake and started shouting to lure the lake monster. Aust went ahead and threw some fish in the water as bait. We waited for a couple moments, but we didn't see anything out of the ordinary. Then, Santiago gave out a loud scream! Aust spotted something underneath Santiago in the water and quickly pulled out a spear. He threw it into the water and it hit something! When he pulled the spear back out, we saw it was a knucklehead trout that bit Santiago's toe...

We were about to leave when we spotted something in the water. Something large. A bulge breaking the surface, going under again. It resurfaced closer. Seemed to be moving towards us. Santiago was still in the water, so I shouted at him to get out! The creature came closer and closer when it finally surfaced near us. A large, monstrous head with rows of long sharp teeth was looking straight at us. We asked ourselves out loud if this was the same creature that spoke in Common to us on the boat here. It replied "Yes, I speak Common"! This seemed to be the same creature!

Amala went pale and silent, looked at it with big scared eyes. We asked the creature how it could talk and it told us that it gained intelligence and the ability to speak from a woman with black hair. Would this be the same druid that visited Amala? The woman asked the creature to harass the people that visited the hot springs, or else it would lose the ability to speak. We asked for its name, but it didn't seem to recognize the concept of names. We decided to call it Bob, Bob the Lake Monster. Santiago tried to broker a deal with the creature, so it would stop harassing people in return for food every week. The creature seemed worried that it would anger the woman and lose its ability to speak, but after some hesitation it did agree to the deal. Amala agreed as well, so it seemed that this settled the lake monster problem. At least for now.

We returned inside the establishment. Amala went back up to the front desk and I followed shortly after. She offered her thanks to us and said she had a small reward for us. A pouch of 50 gold, which could've been more if Santiago didn't smash the window. Someone's not gonna get this reward... Maybe this will teach him from acting like a fool? Probably not. 

Amala asked us if she can be of any help to us. I told her about Oarus' speech this afternoon and she offered to help out in Oarus' favour. She also gave us some more information on the Church of Auril and the Creed of Auril. The Creed apparently split off from the Church of Auril, with some of their more zealous members. While the Church deals more nature's beauty and wrath, the Creed of Auril cares more for the absolute evil aspects of the freezing cold, death and sacrifices. This could be an interesting lead to investigate when we get to Targos again...

We thanked Amala for her time and decided to see how Oarus' was doing with his speech preparations. Once we went outside, one of Rotom's kobolds was panicking as he rushed off, chasing some animal. The other kobolds said a skunk escaped from his cage, which one of the kobolds was carrying around as a kind of weapon. We ran after the kobold to see if we could help him catch the skunk again, to put it back in its cage. We managed to subdue the animal and capture it. Looking around to see if we attracted some attention, I spotted a couple figures looking at us, before they turned away and walked off. Something seemed suspicious here...

We continued to Oarus' house, and as we walked through the market square we saw some people preparing the podium that Oarus would speak from later. Once we got to Oarus' house, we heard him rehearsing his speech upstairs for a while before he came down to see us. We mentioned that we helped Amala with her lake monster problem and that she was willing to help him out too. With the recent wins in Termalaine, I think he has a strong case to get people on his side.

We rested for a while, as they completed the podium outside. When Oarus was ready, we followed him to the town square to watch his speech. As Oarus stepped on the podium, the chatter in the crowd dwindled down as everybody focused on Oarus.

Oarus started out by talking about the mine problem. Rotom and her kobold troop were on stage and Oarus was defending their case, pointing out they were not the cause of the missing miners. I suppose the dashing outfits that Rotom chose for them helped out with their image. Once Oarus mentioned the [[Grell|grell]] and that we killed it in the mine, Marlon carried it on stage, and Oarus explained this creature from the Underdark was the predator that killed the miners. People were terrified at the sight of the creature. Apparently, Amala contacted Oarus in the meanwhile as well, and offered her services as a cleric to hold a small ceremony for the killed miners in a few days. Looked like Oarus gained some trust with the locals as there was some cheering from the crowd.

Then, Oarus mentioned the issue of the food shortage. He acknowledged that it became a more pressing issue as people started to get more and more desperate about the situation. He explained the plan that we were going to set out towards the dwarves, to see if they were willing to set up a trading deal, to possibly trade items and gems from the mine for food. Once the people heard about this plan, we saw people getting visibly more excited. There was more clapping and cheering from the crowd, even more excited than before.

As Oarus finished up his speech, the proprietor of the Blue Clam offered everyone in the square a round on the house hearing these exciting announcements. And with that, the crowd started dispersing. We saw some people walking towards Oarus to congratulate him and shake hands. Amo





====================================


Amala also agreed to help us with Oarus' election speech. Do a ceremony for the killed miners.

When Oarus' gave his speech, talking about the recent victories and incoming help with the food situation, the crowd seems pretty pleased with how Oarus' dealt with recent stuff. People started clapping.

Drank with some people at the Blue Clam. Santiago found a guard, fed him drunk and gained some information on Pippa, Nearth and the sacrifices. Pippa came from Luskan and received some kind of green flying snakes.

Found the shed with Torrga's sleds and gear open. We investigated, found a broken off frozen pinky finger and some oily foot steps. Also there were some tracks leading away from the shed, leading north.

We gathered the others and went on the way to Oarus. The town hall's doors were open, we decided to investigate. The hall was empty and dark and no one present. There were 5 dead people in the cells, they were Torrga and her folk. We found oily tracks in the town hall as well.

Marlon and Aust found a singing zombie on the docks. They had a bit of a skirmish with it, it tried to push Marlon into the water. Eventually it was overpowered and they brought it back into Sune's Comfort and Hot Springs. Amala was called out to see if she could help with the zombie. She recognized the zombie as the clerk from town hall. All of them dragged the still singing zombie back toward the town hall.

Meanwhile, we gathered Oarus and told him about the situation. We went back to town hall and showed him the dead prisoners. Rotom did some extra investigation and found a small scribbling of a rose on a painting.