# Like moths to a fucking flame

**17 Nightal - [[Termalaine]]**

## Questionable questioning
We stood there, in the town hall. [[Amala Bhilar|Amala]] held what remained of [[Ecko]]'s head up by his hair and cast a spell. The decapitated remains of Ecko seemed to animate back to life again, as its eyes and mouth started to move and his skin seemingly less pale than before. Amala stood there, looking at us to start asking it the five questions granted to us. At first it didn't feel right, but I've seen far worse happen to dead people during my training. Inquisitive as I am, I took the lead in asking the questions to Ecko.

Asking what happened to him, he mentioned that he was standing at his desk when four figures walked in. Ecko didn't quite notice where they came from as he was just working at his desk and only saw them when they entered the town hall. Immediately they started an argument with him. Eventually a dwarven woman hit him in the jaw, slamming him to the ground, knocking him out cold. There was another woman, an elf in a black cloak who had a face half covered in ice. The two others were in full winter's clothes and had their faces covered up, so Ecko couldn't identify them. When Ecko regained consciousness shortly after, he heard an argument coming from the cells. Someone was asking [[Torrga Icevein|Torrga]] if she knew where the lantern was, but she didn't know. The answer was quickly followed by a loud bang, and it went silent immediately after. [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] asked if Ecko how it felt to die. Ecko explained that things got dark, as someone then cast a spell on him which made him turn into a zombie. After that final question, the life once again left Ecko's head, his eyes turning back, rigor mortis setting back into his facial muscles, making for a grimacing expression revealing crooked rotting teeth in a pale, stiff face.

Today was a lot to take in... A day starting off with some small victories, dealing with the lake monster and convincing the locals of [[Speaker Oarus|Oarus]]' plans, ended in horror. We went back to Oarus' house to get some rest after this exhausting day. With the recent events, we figured we might need to take turns in keeping watch. I took the first watch to keep us safe and warn the rest of any danger.

## A night to dream of
The night started off quiet, aside from the howling wind outside. We're lucky to be inside now. Looking outside, I saw the aurora in the sky, stared at it for a while. Taking in its nefarious beauty. I was wondering what caused this phenomenon, when suddenly [[Yerthid Granitemuncher|Yerthid]] started talking to me. She warned me of a presence near.

Walking to the others, I saw that everybody was sound asleep, apart from [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]]. She was twisting and turning. Quietly walking up to her to check if she was alright, I suddenly got the chills. The air grew colder and colder as I got closer to Rotom. Yerthid mentioned that the presence was here. Is something haunting Rotom perhaps?

Rotom woke up scared, wide open eyes looking straight at me. I guess I startled her as well, looming over her as she woke up from a nightmare. When I asked if she was alright, she mentioned that she had a strange dream, that it felt real. Rotom told me what she remembered from the dream. She stood in a glass or mirror like room, when a male voice spoke to her. It asked Rotom if she came to save it from the Ninth Tower, when finally the floor collapsed underneath her and she woke up. 

Rotom suddenly grabbed something on her hip, a ring of keys. She said they felt freezing cold and dropped them on the floor. I picked them up to inspect them and indeed the keys were really cold to the touch. It was a set of nine keys made from shining moonstone, which look like they would fit an intricately complex lock. Rotom said she took them from a lady she traveled with on the way to [[Ten Towns]]. There was no particular reason why she took them, apart from that they were shiny. Typically Rotom, obsessed by shiny things. The lady belonged to a group called the [[Arcane Brotherhood]]. Rotom was there together with a pack of kobolds. When the other kobolds noticed her sticky fingers, she was cast out of the kobold clan. Seems like this ring of keys is keeping something important, or dangerous, locked away. I asked her if it was okay to have someone take a look at the keys some time, promising her that she would be able to keep them. Hesitant at first, she seemed to agree with the idea. I told her to keep these keys very close to her.

Seeing she was a bit calmer now, I told her it was best to go to sleep again. My watch was coming to an end as well so I woke up [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos|Santiago]] for his turn of the watch. I walked up to [[Kesni]] and tucked her in a bit. She was sound asleep, unaware of what had just happened. Got in my bed and went to sleep.

In my sleep I had a dream as well. There was this figure in a white cloak, had a blood soaked grinning face. "Like moths to a fucking flame", it said to me. Then a sharp pain on my head woke me up. I got hit by something, hard. In a reflex I immediately grabbed my crossbow and shot towards the figure looming over me. Unfortunately, I missed. It was [[Aust Rime|Aust]], his axe in his hand. He hit me with the blunt end when the moth landed on my head. "And, did I get it?", he asked. Confused as to what he was referring to, I saw him take another swing as he spotted the thing he was chasing after. It was a white moth that landed on the floor. Its wings divided by a bloody splat, it quickly started disintegrating into a small pile of dust before we could even take a look at it. "It was undead", Aust said. Aust and I got in a small argument about using his axe on my head. What was he thinking? Was he even thinking? Who knows...

Aside from this moth incident, the rest of the night went relatively smooth. When we woke up in the morning, we had breakfast and made plans for what to do next. There's a couple of leads we have, and Santiago started making a list of people we should investigate. We discussed [[Ravisin]], [[Pippa Ebonfall|Pippa]] and [[Speaker Naerth|Naerth]], and [[Henrack]], among others. We decided to investigate the leads we have on Ravisin, the half-elven druid that visited Amala, as we had the clearest leads and location for her.

## Into the woods

**18 Nightal - The Woods of Termalaine and Lonelywood**

We checked our supplies and set out towards the woods, to see if we could find the druid circle only people of elvish descent could find. Aust was helming the expedition as he knew the area and because he is an elf himself, he should be able to find the druid circle. We went on for a couple of hours, at first we were seemingly walking around in circles as Aust couldn't get his bearings. We spotted some moose tracks in the snow, but we didn't spot any moose.

Suddenly I saw movement to our right. It was an [[Owlbear|owlbear]] storming straight at us. A large creature with a bear-like form, but feathered and with an owl head. I warned the rest and we got ready for a fight as this hulking beast got nearer and nearer.

[[Marlon]] charged straight at it, ragingly swinging his axe at the owlbear. Rotom was right behind him, she immediately dropping to the snowy ground and started screaming at the sight of the huge beast. I activated the Rite of the Dawn on my crossbow and shot a bolt at the owlbear, but it just missed it, hitting the ground just behind it. Meanwhile, I heard movement behind me, as another owlbear came charging in towards Aust and Santiago. Aust fought it with his axe as well, while Santiago tried to distract it with some rations. The rations got the owlbear's attention as it snatched them from Santiago's hand with its claws and started tearing into them. Seeing this, Santiago ran over to Marlon and Rotom.

Marlon tore into the owlbear right in front of him with his axe, while Rotom got herself together again. She went for a sneaky attack on the owlbear from behind Marlon, and it looked like she hit an artery with her shortbow. The creature started to look pretty bad and started to cower away. It started bolting away from Marlon, Santiago and Rotom, and they let the owlbear go.

Aust cast a spell on the other owlbear, which seemed to make it afraid of him. Before it also tried to run away, Aust, Rotom, Santiago and me managed to get another couple of hits on that owlbear too. It too started to look real bad and tried to flee, but Aust caught up to it and buried his axe deep into its neck, sending the owlbear fall limp onto the snowy forest floor. Aust started to carve up the owlbear for its meat, while I managed to get a fairly large amount feathers I gathered into a bag. Should make for a nice pillow, some vendor might be interested in them.

We continued through the forest and Aust seemed to get his bearing this time. After a small while, we got to a runed monolith that said that the way to [[Sahnar of Luruar]], the Ward of Mallieki, would be revealed in moonlight. Rotom figured that her moonstone keys might also give off some faint moonlight when something bright shone on them. I lit a torch and held them near the keys, as Rotom aimed the reflection towards onto the monolith. Symbols appeared of phases of the moon, with an arrow pointing to the northeast. [[Lonelywood]] would have been due west from where we were standing, so we would be heading further into the forest. Sounded about right for a secluded druid circle.

## Missing in the mist
After continuing into the forest for a while, we found more moose tracks. When Aust tried to get his bearing, Yerthid spoke to me again. She pointed out a figure leaning against the bottom of a tree close to us. I warned the others about the figure and we carefully approached it. Inspecting our immediate surroundings, I didn't spot anything else, aside from the figure against the tree.

Santiago and I walked up towards it and we saw that the figure was dead. Its abdomen eaten away, its eyes and mouth filled with snow. Santiago found a wooden ring embedded with rough amber. On the inside it had an inscription, Lonelywood Logging Company. As Yerthid brought us here, I asked her if there was anything else present here. Yerthid warned me of a dense mist, slowly coming toward us. Looking at it, I saw flying creatures in the mist. Santiago heard me talking to Yerthid, which must've spooked him. I explained I was talking to Yerthid, my dead wife. Have to admit that must sound very, _very_ strange to someone, so I tried to explain the situation. I got pretty awkward as Santiago didn't believe me of course. By this time, the rest of the group caught up with our conversation, and they had some funny looks on their faces. As the mist got closer and closer to us, I told them what Yerthid warned me about. There was something in the mist.

Looking again, I finally saw what kind of creatures were flying in there. They were moths. White moths. Started to remember what was said in my dream, "Like moths to a fucking flame", and the white moth that Aust killed, my curiosity got the better of me and I started walking toward the mist, crossbow drawn. Shouting to the others about the moths, it went unanswered. Looking around me, I couldn't see or hear anyone else. No one else but me in the mist. Alone.

The snowy floor and pine trees gave way to barren land and dead trees, covered in a red sheen from a glowing red sky. I walked closer to the moths to observe them. As I reached out to the moths with my hand, a voice behind me. "Hello, mister Granitemuncher". I quickly turned around and saw the white cloaked figure from my dreams! Its face was covered in a bright red glowing light, had to squint a bit when I looked at it. "The spirits of the ancients, like moths to a fucking flame", it said. Asking what it was referring to, it said that the spirits were attracted to certain artifacts. I figured it meant either the elemental lantern or my silver locket, but it seemed it wasn't suggesting anything material.

When my eyes adjusted a bit to the red glow emanating from the figure, I started to make out it facial features. White hair, a male elven face, dark skin, an evil grin. This was a drow. And a very powerful mage, seemingly embracing very dark magic. Then it hit me, this was the necromancer that killed Yerthid! Was he after me too now?! I immediately went into a rage, got out my crossbow and fired straight at his face. He dodged the crossbow bolt and quickly started moving backwards, fading into the mist. "Until we meet again", I heard him say. I ran after him, shouting. Firing another bolt, it hit him, but it got deflected by some magical barrier. Before I could fire another bolt, he was completely faded away and the mist started to subside.

I found myself in familiar surroundings again. Snow on the forest floor, green pine trees and the red sheen in the sky gave way to the shimmering aurora. I started shouting for the rest of the group and we quickly found each other again. After this situation, I supposed I owed the group an explanation. Told them about how Yerthid disappeared, how I got the locket, the necromancer. It must sound a bit loony to them, hearing all this. As soon as I mentioned that I saw that same necromancer in the mist, they were quite shocked. Told them what happened in there. Once the group heard that I wanted to get revenge and stop the necromancer once and for all, they offered their help, though right now we had other pressing matters. Heavy hearted, I had to agree to that. I'll rid this world of the evil that took my Yerthid away from me...

Santiago was curious about the wooden ring he found earlier, and went on to detect any magic in his presence. The wooden ring wasn't magical, but items that didn't seem magical earlier, were now glowing as an effect of the spell. We saw a red glow emanating from Marlon's pockets where he kept the metal shards he found in the mine. Rotom's moonstone keys also gave off a necromantic glow, as did my silver locket. Kitty's skull on Aust's shoulder also gave off a faint glow. Did something activate these items?

After all this, we decided to press onward to find the hidden druid circle. Aust led us to a snowy hillside. Walking up the hill, we saw a there a wall of about ten feet high. In the wall there was an entrance, leading to a circular clearing with a carved crystal structure rising from the middle. I've never seen this kind of structure before, but the group mentioned that this was a gnomon. Part of a sundial, that was mainly used to tell the time of day. In this case, it seemed different. On the floor, the gnomon was surrounded by five symbols representing phases of the moon. On the east side of the structure, on top of the wall, there seemed to be a tomb of some kind, surround on its eastern side by five pillars.

Walking outside again to take a look at the six statues, each statue depicted a different elven race. Inspecting each statue, something caught my eye about the face of the drow statue. That face, that face! That was the necromancer's face!