# Like moths to a flame
**Questionable questioning**
We stood there, in the town hall. Amala held what remained of Ecko's head up by his hair and cast a spell. The decapitated remains of Ecko seemed to animate back to life again, as its eyes and mouth started to move. Amala stood there, looking at us start asking it the five questions granted to us. At first it didn't feel right, but I've seen far worse happen to dead people during my training. Inquisitive as I am, I took the lead in asking the questions to Ecko.

Asking what happened to him, he mentioned that he was standing at his desk when four figures walked in. Ecko didn't quite notice where they came from as he was just working at his desk and only saw them when they entered the town hall. Immediately they started an argument and eventually a dwarven woman of them hit him in the jaw, which slammed him to the ground and knocked him out. There was another woman, an elf in a black cloak who had a face which was half covered in ice. Two others were in full winter's clothes and had their faces covered up, so Ecko couldn't identify them. When Ecko regained consciousness shortly after being hit, he heard an argument coming from the cells. They were asking Torrga if she knew where the lantern was, but she didn't know. The answer was followed with a loud bang, and it went silent immediately after. Things got dark then for Ecko, as someone then cast a spell on him which made him turn into a zombie.

A lot happened today and there was a lot to take in... We went back to [[Speaker Oarus|Oarus']] house to get some rest after this exhausting day. With the recent events, we figured we might need to take turns in keeping watch. I took the first watch to keep us safe and warn us of any danger.

================================

**Sleep**
- First watch: wind howling, aurora in the sky. Rotom twist and turn, Yerthid speaking again about a presence near Rotom. Chilling presence around the house. Rotom dreaming? Room, mirror like, voice, asking if Rotom was coming to save it from the ninth tower. Rotom grabs a ring of keys, ice cold to the touch. Inspecting the keys, they are intricate and complex keys. Nine keys, made of moonstone. Rotom came to Icewind Dale with a lady, lady had the keys. Rotom came from the Arcane Brotherhood.
- Second watch: Nothing happens
- Third watch: A dream, white cloak, soaked grinning face, saying: "Like moths to a fucking flame". Got hit in the head, hard. Apparently Aust chasing a moth.

**On the way to Lonelywood**
Got lost in the woods. Moose tracks.

Ambushed by two owlbears. One fled, other killed. Harvested feathers.

Aust found a runed monolith, pointing out that the way to the Ward of Mallieki is revealed in during moonlight.

Found more moose tracks. Yerthid points out a dead figure against a tree, abdomen eaten away, eyes and mouth filled with snow. Wooden ring with rough amber, Lonelywood Logging Company. Asking Yerthid about the situation, she revealed a thick fog coming towards us. 

Walking into the mist, barren trees, red sheen from the sky. Man white cloak, dipped in red. "The spirit of the ancients, like moths to a fucking flame." Asked about these spirits, he told me that they were attracted to certain artifacts. Thinking about this, I pulled out my lantern, then my locket, but it seems he didn't mean material things. Lifting his head,  there was a bright red sheen from his face, elven face, white hair, dark skin. This was a drow. A powerful mage. I recognized the figure as the necromancer that took Yerthid! Fired crossbow bolt, sidestepped it. Figure said "Until we meet again mister Granitemuncher". Fired another crossbow bolt which hit, but ricocheted off by magic. The mist subsided. Regrouped. Told the group the story about my wife. They offered help.

Santiago cast Detect Magic:
- Marlon's metal shard: glowing red, Transmutation
- Rotom's keys: Necromancy
- Grolto's locket: Necromancy
- Kitty:

Aust led the way, found seven statues of elven figures. I recognized one of them as the drow necromancer!