# Session 7
**Questions asked to Ecko:**
- What happened just before you were turned into a zombie?
	- Four figures entered, started argument, hit jaw, slammed to ground.
- Please describe the people that did this to you?
	- Female dwarf hit Ecko
	- Female elf black cloak, half face ice
	- Two in winter's clothes
- Where did they come from?
	- Just entered, Ecko was behind the counter
- Why did Torrga have to die?
	- Asking about a lantern, Torrga didn't know, Ecko heard a bang, then things went silent
- What is it like to die?
	- Bleeding out on the ground, hearing about Torrga, then raised as zombie

**Sleep**
- First watch: wind howling, aurora in the sky. Rotom twist and turn, Yerthid speaking again about a presence near Rotom. Chilling presence around the house. Rotom dreaming? Room, mirror like, voice, asking if Rotom was coming to save it from the ninth tower. Rotom grabs a ring of keys, ice cold to the touch. Inspecting the keys, they are intricate and complex keys. Nine keys, made of moonstone. Rotom came to Icewind Dale with a lady, lady had the keys. Rotom came from the Arcane Brotherhood.
- Second watch: Nothing happens
- Third watch: A dream, white cloak, soaked grinning face, saying: "Like moths to a fucking flame". Got hit in the head, hard. Apparently Aust chasing a moth.

**On the way to Lonelywood**
Got lost in the woods. Moose tracks.

Ambushed by two owlbears. One fled, other killed. Harvested feathers.

Aust found a runed monolith, pointing out that the way to the Ward of Mallieki is revealed in during moonlight.

Found more moose tracks. Yerthid points out a dead figure against a tree, abdomen eaten away, eyes and mouth filled with snow. Wooden ring with rough amber, Lonelywood Logging Company. Asking Yerthid about the situation, she revealed a thick fog coming towards us. 

Walking into the mist, barren trees, red sheen from the sky. Man white cloak, dipped in red. "The spirit of the ancients, like moths to a fucking flame." Lifting his head, bright red sheen from his face, elven face, white hair, dark skin, . I recognized the figure as the necromancer that took Yerthid. Fired crossbow bolt, sidestepped it. Figure said "Until we meet again mister Granitemuncher". Fired another crossbow bolt which hit, but ricocheted off. The mist subsided. Regrouped. Told the group the story about my wife. They offered help.

Santiago cast Detect Magic. 