# Session 8

**18 Nightal - Lonelywood forest**

Rime led us through the dark, old forest. The terrain starts to get more hill-like here, seems like this forest edges the base of [[Kelvin's Cairn]]. We reached a cleared piece of the forest on a snowy hillside. I saw a couple of statues in the distance as we walked closer to the clearing. When we got there, I was able to get a good look at the statues. My gaze immediately went to a familiar figure, the drow statue. That was a statue of the drow necromancer! Why does he have a statue here?!

As I saw this statue, my vision blurred, I got dizzy and got nauseous. Vomited into the snow. Got really anxious at the sight of this statue, seems like I had a panic attack... Took me a while to get myself together and recollect my thoughts. 

While I still felt anxious, I started to take a look at the statues. The was writing behind the status:

> Before you stand the ancients. The champions of Heleg imlad, those who defeated Dur-baagal the Dawn Titan by charge of Auril.

Ancients? _Spirits of the ancients_ perhaps? Like moths to a fucking flame?!

The statues stood on circular bases, standing about 7 foot tall. They looked old, _really old_. Time and icy wind seemed to have torn at these statues for a very long time. They also had some text engraved into it. Seemed like their names, titles and allegiances to some deity. It looks like half of them were somewhat good aligned and the other half evil aligned...

The first statue was of Anga Keos, a High elf. Champion of Auril. Custodian of the Frigid Veil. Auril...

The second statue was of Lyndis Helerora, a Wood elf. Champion of Amaunator, god of the sun. Keeper of all that bears leaf. There are two forest near Ten Towns, would this mean those forests?

The third statue bore the name of Radelia Xillynn, an Eladrin. Champion of Eldath, goddess of the springs. Bringer of fever to Lac and Maer. I suppose this is related to the hot springs of Maer Dualdon? I haven't heard about hot springs near Lac Dinneshere though...

The fourth statue I approached carefully. It was of Omareth Baenre, the drow necromancer that took Yerthid. Champion of Malar, god of the hunt. Sovereign of the Growing Mountain. What mountain is mentioned here? Could this mean [[Kelvin's Cairn]]? I've never heard tales of it growing before...

The fifth statue was of Elmar Elabanise, a sea elf. Champion of Umberlee, goddess of the sea. Tamer of the Sea of Moving Ice. That sea is to the west of here. I've heard tales about how treacherous it is to navigate.

And finally, on the sixth statue, Sahnar of Luruar, a Moon elf. Champion of Mallieki. Light of the Sunless Grove. We've heard about the [[Druid Circle|Loneywood Grove]] being mentioned by [[Amala Bhilar|Amala]], but she didn't call it the Sunless Grove. Considering all of the following: there's no sun here, a moon elf, all the moon symbolism here, would this location be the Sunless Grove itself?

All of these statues seemed to be related to the nature domain.

We decided to look around some more. To the left of the statues there was an opening in the hill side, looking through the opening we saw a circular indentation in the hill with a crystal gnomon standing in the middle. Symbols of the moon phases on the ground. Rotom found something that look liked a smooth stone door to the left of the opening, didn't seem to open from this side. Maybe it was an exit?

Walking around to the right side, we saw a gazebo featuring a brazier in the middle and a set of stairs leading up a 10 foot high ridge around the circular area. Walking up the stairs, we saw a tomb surrounded by five pillars on its eastern side. Rotom cleared the snow of the tomb, which revealed an inscription:

> I stand here to take the vow as the ancients did before me. Hear me, maidens of frost and moon as we kindle and preserve the light. As we isolate and behold beauty in your images. As we slay your enemies without remorse and we endure whatever hardships come before us.

The tomb seemed to be sealed, it wouldn't budge. Santiago had the feeling it might even be a magical seal. Looking at the five pillars next to the tomb, they had symbols on them: a twig, a pine cone, a flame, a feather and a hand. The first three seemed like ingredients for a fire, maybe the feather as well. But the hand?

Aust was looking at another statue at the northern side of the circular clearing. There stood another statue of a woman with an owl face. This had to be a statue of Auril, this is a form people know her by.

Looking to the north of the tomb, there was still the gazebo with the brazier that we didn't take a look at yet. Investigating at the brazier, it contained four of the symbols we just saw, apart from the hand. We figured we might as well try to light the fire to see if we can unlock some secrets of this place. We gathered some wood, pine cones and feathers and put them in the bowl. Rotom got out her tinder box and lit the fire. Nothing happened yet. Thinking about the hand and the purpose of this place, it could maybe had to do something with sacrifice. I pulled off my glove and put my hand in the fire. It hurt lik





================

Pillars at tomb: twig, pine cone, flame, feather, humanoid hand

There's a brazier that's emanating some sort of magic. It had inscriptions matching the pillars and we gathered them. We were still missing the hand, so I put my hand in the fire.

Another statue, it's of Auril.

Suddenly a moose behind us. It charged Santiago. Pierced Aust's armor. Fought and  killed it.

Went downstairs in the cave. Two dead bodies, snow in mouths and eye sockets. Rings on them, more Lonelywood Logging Company bodies.

Inscription on the wall: "And thus by their charge they did slay the frigid leviathann and prevented the growth of Crenshinibon." More writing in charcoal on the walls.

It's a list of names and locations, some crossed through:

Crossed out:
- Falpher Proudfoot (Dougans Hole)
- Hedvig Stonemaul (Good Mead)
- Coster Wolclaw (Targos)
- Ivahn & Gareth of Daerlun (Targos / Termalaine)

Not crossed out:
- Naerth Maxildanarr (Targos)
- Amala Bhilar (Termalaine)
- Rotom Moonblade (Termalaine)
- Santiago De la Cruz (Termalaine)
- Marlon Tayte (Termalaine)
- Grolto Granitemuncher (Termalaine)
- Kadroth (Caer Dineval)
- Avarice (Caer Dineval)

Hear a voice coming from the stairs. "Blightmane, Icefang, we have visitors!". Wolves seem startled.

It's Henrack! Fire crossbow at him. Santiago tries to intimidate him, seems to have no effect, but wolves scared. Henrack summons the loggers back to life. We killed off the ghouls and wolves. After some fighting we managed to kill of Henrack. Came back to life. Chopped his head off.

Prisoner 274 tattoo on Henrack's lower arm. Seemed to be from Revel's End Prison. Had a magical bracer. Piece of shark skin with writing on it.

Spider on the ceiling. Santiago threw a dagger at it, hitting it. It fell down and turned into Ravisin. Santiago tried to intimidate her to stay down, but she cast a spell to hurl ice at us and then it went black.