# Session 9

**18 Nightal - Sunless Grove**

The blackness faded from my vision, a weird taste in my mouth. [[Rotom Moonbane|Rotom]] and a weird bird were looking over me as I regained my consciousness. Looking over to the others, seems like everybody's slowly waking from our encounter with [[Ravisin]]. Everyone, but [[Marlon Tayte|Marlon]]. Rotom and [[Aust Rime|Aust]] try some desperate options, using healing kits and spells, but to no avail.

Marlon had taken quite a beating in the battle with [[Henrack]]. And that last hit, the icy storm that ravaged the interior of the tomb's hallways, must have pushed him over the edge. Another murder on the hands of Henrack and Ravisin...

The penguin introduced himself as [[Kingsporth]], apparently a servant of Ravisin. He's one of the animals that she "blessed" with intelligence and speech. Seeing the four of us lying unconscious had him bring a silver platter with some goodberries to bring us back to consciousness.

We started interrogating the flightless fucker, asking about Ravisin and this place. He didn't seem to know much at all, but that didn't satisfy [[Santiago Cruz de los Santos|Santiago]]. At all. Grabbing the little flightless bird by its feathers, Santiago started shouting at Kingsporth for answers. To annoy the bird, Santiago started calling it Phillip Knobsworth. Kingsporth didn't like that at all and was complaining about his rude treatment, which in turn led to more humiliation from Santiago.

Kingsporth led us up the stairs to Ravisin's room, the stone slab door now open. The interior looked like a tomb that had been repurposed by Ravisin to be her chambers. A small rack with various supplies, herbs and potions, a bedroll, and a traveling backpack were to be seen on the floor. In the middle of the tomb was a sarcophagus with a waning half moon symbol on it. Santiago ransacked her backpack and found two potions of mysterious origin. We should have someone take a look at those to see what they are. When Santiago found some of Ravisin's boots, he pulled down his pants and started pissing in them. So petty. So not surprising.

Santiago then took it out on the penguin. Grabbing the bird by it's feathers and lifting it up the wall, he started slapping the penguin and demanding information. Kingsporth didn't seem to know much, but that didn't stop Santiago from slapping the penguin some more, to no avail. Eventually, Santiago got out a piece of rope and tied it around Kingsporth as a leash, so he could drag the penguin wherever he went.

Walking down the stairs again, we began scouting out the rest of this place. We saw the moonshaped mirror again. The door to the other room was still locked. Kingsporth explained that these doors were opened by lighting the gnomon outside with moonlight to have it point to one of the moon symbols on the floor. Rotom climbed outside and together with Aust's torch shone the light off of her moonstone keys on the gnomon, to point to the waxing half moon symbol. Inside we heard the grinding of stone. Looking into the hallway leading up to the previously closed door, we saw that it was now open. It revealed another tomb with a sarcophagus in the middle.

Santiago and I entered the room to investigate. The tomb didn't show any signs of recent activity. We looked at each other and silently agreed we wanted to open the sarcophagus to look inside of it. We pushed the lid off of the sarcophagus, revealing a mummified corpse of a humanoid, presumably of elvish origin. Inspecting the insides of the sarcophagus, we found a couple of decayed arrows that had silver arrow heads, and a wooden unstrung bow of elven make. Santiago took the bow, I took the silver arrow heads. Would make some fine silver crossbow bolts.

Running back to the first sarcophagus, we moved the lid of that one as well, only to discover it was already emptied before. Was it ransacked by Ravisin? Did it contain something useful for her? Maybe we'll figure it out. Maybe not.

We all gathered outside, as there was still some stuff we wanted to investigate regarding the sarcophagus of [[Sahnar of Luruar]]. Santiago took Kingsporth up to the sarcophagus and started aggressively interrogating him. The penguin suggested to take a look at the pillars, something we already did. Kingsporth claimed he didn't know much more about the sarcophagus or how it could be opened. That didn't stop Santiago from further humiliating Kingsporth. To be honest, I got pretty fed up at his unwillingness or unforthcoming attitude, so I stepped in as well. Pointing at one of the pillars, the one with the feather, I said to him: "Oh look, there _is_ a way you can help out". And then plucked one of his feathers, for later use.

Rotom then suggested taking a rest inside, as it's been a long day and we looked like shit. Santiago was still having at the penguin, so I told him to leave the penguin alone and come inside as well. Annoyed, he passed the leashed penguin to Rotom and stormed inside, muttering about Kingsporth "usefulness". Aust seemed to want to stay outside, starting to meditate near Sahnar's sarcophagus. Rotom and I followed Santiago, and as soon as we got inside, Santiago already lied on the floor with his eyes shut, his back leaning to the cave wall, beginning to snore. Rotom and I went into Ravisin's chambers to camp, as it was a bit better protected. The room was cold and the floor hard, but I suppose this was better than camping outside.

**19 Nightal - Sunless Grove**

The night was uneventful fortunately, until we got up to go outside again. Walking down the stairs to the main hall where Santiago slept, we saw someone peeking inside through the hole in the wall. Immediately, I was on my guard as this might be another druid figure from this place. "Well met, traveler", he greeted. I inquired who he was and he replied his name was Aedan, a beekeeper from near Good Mead. He came here to seek guidance regarding his nightmare of last night and his bees that went missing or turned into moths.

Santiago took the more amicable approach with Aedan, overwhelming Aedan with his bullshittery. Following Santiago and Aedan outside, I could now take a good look at Aedan. He was a large, hairy creature, a firbolg apparently, with green hair on top of his head and a long brown beard coming from his chin. I could now also see that he was followed around by a swarm of insects, but... They were white moths! I had to keep an eye on this character...

After Santiago told Aedan we were interested in opening the tomb, Aedan asked why we wanted to. Santiago pulled a story from his ass that he wanted to check if Sahnar was buried according to local elven traditions. Aedan was a bit weary of this answer, but eventually he seemed willing to help us out by explaining how it worked and performed the ritual for us. Rotom came running toward us with a hand she chopped off of one of the ghouls. Aedan lit the fire and Rotom tossed in the hand. The small crackling orange fire turned into a roaring white bright blaze as soon as the hand was tossed in. We heard the grinding of stone on stone coming from Sahnar's sarcophagus. Walking over to it, we now see the lid of the sarcophagus was open, revealing a mummy that was starting to sit upright. Aedan explained that was the mummy of Sahnar that we could ask for guidance in the form of five questions.

"What answers do you seek?", the mummy asked. Aedan first inquired about the nightmare he had. In his dream he was outside, walking in the snow under a sky lit by a single red star. Looking at his hands, he saw they were covered in blood. White moths were fluttering around him, trying to keep up with him in the howling ice cold wind, but one by one they fell from the air. Looking at the moths, Aedan saw that the moths were covered in blood. Waking up, it was quiet. The usual buzzing of his bees wasn't there. Looking at his hands now he was awake, they were still covered in blood. Going to inspect his beehives, he saw that there were no bees in the beehives anymore. Around the beehives, hundreds of white moths were fluttering through the air. Sahnar's mummy answered, "Crenshinibon is drawing in spirits. Inside the mountain, a root is growing." In recent times, the mountain was drawing more and more people to it.

I inquired about the statue of Omareth Baenre. After the defeat of Dur-Baagal the Dawn Titan, Omareth Baenre got more and more interested in the mountain. Currently he rules over the growing mountain and is studying it, or something inside it? I'm not entirely sure what the growing mountain is, but it could be Kelvin's Cairn...

Rotom wanted to inquire about the dream she had, the being that was locked away in the ninth tower. Sahnar unfortunately had no answer for her as she held no knowledge of that.

Pondering over the answers of Sahnar of Luruar a bit, it's all starting to come together now. Seems like Omareth Baenre is studying something in Kelvin's Cairn. The mention of a root growing, that the mountain is growing and the champions of Heleg Imlad having stopped the growing of Crenshinibon seems to imply that something is happening inside [[Kelvin's Cairn]] perhaps? Is something attracting people to the mountain for some reason? Are they coming "like moths to a fucking flame"? Are they used somehow to let the root in the mountain grow? Would that root mean Crenshinibon is growing again? We have to go there to investigate, soon. We have to go in that direction anyway to keep our promise to Oarus to help out with the trade deal with the dwarves that live in the dwarven valley for food.

In the meanwhile Rotom went ahead and search Marlon's body for anything useful he still had on him. She took a couple of things, the glowing gem, the metal shards and some gear. When we asked ourselves out loud where if we should bury or cremate Marlon, Aedan suggested that it should be done outside these hallowed grounds. We carried Marlon's body into the woods for a bit and built a pyre of some dead, dry trees and branches. Santiago wanted to lead the ceremony as he said he was familiar with dwarven culture. He seemed full of shit again, but at least the words he said were kind, although they were few. "He was a good dwarf", he started. And that's where he stopped as well. Looking among ourselves if this was supposed to be it, we accepted the moment for what it was and held our silence for a bit as we lit the pyre and watched Marlon's body be turned into ashes, to be reclaimed by nature in these woods.

We had one last thing to check out before we moved out: the moon mirror inside. Rotom and Aust shone light from her keys on the full moon symbol this time, Santiago went inside to go look at the mirror. We waited for a bit for a signal from Santiago, but he kept silent. I walked up to the tomb entrance and shouted inside if it was working. Santiago replied that it wasn't really working. I climbed down for a bit to go look for Santiago and found him staring into the mirror, looking at a ship of some sort, loaded with treasure, gold and gems. As soon as he noticed me, he turned around, looking at me with an envious, angry expression. "It is my ship! It is mine! My treasure!", Santiago started shouting. Trying to calm his mood, I assured him that it was indeed his, and his alone, as he was the captain. There's something about this treasure that seems to tick him off... This looks like the ship he asked me to go and find when we initially met. Santiago wanted us all to go to his ship immediately, of course. I assured him that we will get there eventually, after we take care of Ravisin and some other business. The ship was a ways off as well, as we had to travel west of Bremen towards the Sea of Moving Ice. We decided to go back to Termalaine to report back to Oarus what we found here.

On the way to Termalaine, I walked up to our new companion to talk about his white moths. It was a new experience for Aedan as well, as it had just happened earlier today. Looking at the moths, it looked like they were similar to the ones I had seen earlier in the mist. I told Aedan about what happened as well, when I saw the moths, the encounter with Omareth Baenre. Seems like we have a common goal to investigate these weird events now.

About an hour after we left the grove, we arrived in Termalaine again. We had a couple of things we had to take care of on short notice. We visited Amala to tell her that she was on this list of targets, like the rest of us. Seems like Ravisin didn't take kindly to her offer being declined by Amala. Amala thanked us for the warning and we set out to report back to Oarus.

As soon as we got to Oarus, he immediately told us people were looking for us. Or specifically, for the lantern we were carrying with us. Oarus was visited by someone looking like a wizard named Dzaan. Dzaan was a man in his thirties, had long black hair and a goatee. Underneath his winter coat, Oarus noticed a red robe. Dzaan said he had a deal with Torrga, to buy the lantern from her. Oarus luckily didn't mention us specifically, but said he knew someone who might know more about it. Dzaan mentioned he really wanted that lantern, as he currently was in a bidding war with someone named Avarice, who was on the kill list in the grove. Dzaan needed the lantern to find a certain titan. Would he mean Dur-Baagal the Dawn Titan? Why does Dzaan want to find the titan? I'm not sure if we should trust Dzaan or Avarice with this lantern. We should learn more about their intentions and allegiances.

When we got ready to call it a day and go to our beds, we spotted Rotom looking at a metal shard, one of the shards Marlon found on the ghost in the mine. The shard seemed quite a bit larger than before, was it growing in size?! Is this what is growing inside the growing mountain?